
		Today Microsoft Trustworthy Computing released the tenth volume of the Microsoft Security Intelligence Report (SIRv10). We released the first volume of the SIR more than four years ago. Over that time, almost every aspect of the SIR has evolved.
The intelligence on the threats you’ll see in SIRv10 is based on telemetry from more than 600 million systems worldwide and some of the Internet’s busiest online services such as Hotmail and Bing. These global capabilities, coupled with the expertise of the researchers, analysts and engineers in the Microsoft Malware Protection Center, the Microsoft Security Engineering Center, the Microsoft Security Response Center, and various product and operations groups at Microsoft, provide you with detailed threat data for over 100 countries. Because we are providing more data on far more countries (five times more countries) than in any previous volume of the SIR, you’ll see that volume 10 is more than double the size of any of the previous volumes.
A big part of my job is discussing threats with analysts, security experts, IT professionals, developers, and Chief Security Officers around the world. The SIR gets used by many people, many different ways. For example, many organizations use the SIR to learn how attackers are shifting their tactics in an effort to take advantage of as many people as possible; the SIR helps inform potential changes to policies and technologies within their organization. Some use the infection rate by operating system data in the SIR to help make a business case for upgrading to newer, more secure software or deploying more secure service packs for their current platforms. As you can see from the graph below, newer is better across the board.

If understanding the threat landscape will help you and/or your organization, SIRv10 will be a useful reference for you. Please feel free to download the report and watch related videos from subject matter experts at Microsoft at www.microsoft.com/sir.
Over the coming weeks, I plan to post more details from SIRv10. Stay tuned!
Tim Rains

	