
		 
Trending Security News 
Several stories this week in security focused on the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. The Wall Street Journal ran a story on China Hackers Hit U.S. Chamber of Commerce; Network World’s coverage focused on Chinese hack on U.S. Chamber went undetected for 6 months; while The Washington Post wrote that China hack of Chamber of Commerce highlights ‘spear-phishing’ dangers. The breach caught the attention of Congress, with Hillicon Valley reporting Chairman Rogers: Economic spying at ‘an intolerable level’. Meanwhile Constantine von Hoffman, in his blog IT Security Hack, brought a lighthearted touch with his Why Did the Chinese Hack into the U.S. Chamber of Commerce? He offers a  range of potential motivations including “China confused the Chamber with the Rotary and was really looking for how to run small lunch groups on a nation-wide scale” and “Worst case: China has already infiltrated all of our important networks and is now going after the unimportant ones, ‘just to be sure.’”  
U.S. Chamber of Commerce Reportedly Hacked with Spear Phishing 

China Hackers Hit U.S. Chamber – The Wall Street Journal 
Chinese hack on U.S. Chamber went undetected for 6 months – Network World 
China hack of Chamber of Commerce highlights ‘spear-phishing’ dangers – The Washington Post 
Chairman Rogers: Economic spying at ‘an intolerable level’ – Hillicon Valley 
Why Did the Chinese Hack into the U.S. Chamber of Commerce? – IT Security Hack by Constantine von Hoffman       

Security Research & Intelligence

Security Holes In Software Decreased This Year, Early Data Shows – Dark Reading 
Feds to Focus R&D Efforts on Designing Security in to Applications – Threat Post 
How hackers gave Subway a $3 million lesson in point-of-sale security – Ars Tecnica 
A Silver Bullet for Application Security? – eSecurity Planet 

   
Cyber Threat

Busy Signal Service Targets Cyberheist Victims – Krebs on Security 
Siemens fixing cyber bugs in industrial control systems – MSNBC 
Iowa GOP worried by hacker threat to caucus vote – MercuryNews.com  

   
Government, Legislation & Policy

Tech policy preview of 2012 – Hillicon Valley 
Will Kim Jong Un be for cyberwarfare what his dad was for nukes? – CSO Online 
FBI To Get More Cyber Crime Agents – InformationWeek 
Bill Would Foster Cyber-Threat Info Sharing – Bank Info Security       


Blog Picks

Why Did the Chinese Hack into the U.S. Chamber of Commerce? – IT Security Hack by Constantine von Hoffman
APTs: Unfortunately, There Is No Silver Bullet Solution – Networking Nuggets and Security Snippets, by Jon Olstik
Lax security blamed for 100,000+ sensitive files found on Manning’s PC – Sophos Naked Security   


Microsoft Research, Papers and Media

Cybersecurity/Internet Health

Rethinking the Cyber Threat (paper) 
Collective Defense: Applying Public Health Models to the Internet (paper) 
Video: Collective Defense: Enabling Healthy Devices (video) 


Security Intelligence

Lessons from Least Malware Infected Countries (series) 
Battling the ZBot Threat (paper) 


Trustworthy Computing

Imagine Video: Microsoft Trustworthy Computing (video) 


Cybersecurity/Trusted Supply Chain:

Supply Chain Risk Management keynote at the East-West Institute’s Second Worldwide Cybersecurity Summit (video) 
Cyber Supply Chain Risk Management: Toward a Global Vision of Transparency and Trust (paper) 
Toward a Trusted Supply Chain: A Risk Based Approach To Managing Software Integrity (paper) 




	