
		Trending Security News
This week security news stories focused on the rise of rapidly changing social engineered malware spread through mail attachments designed to infect your computer. You may have received these suspicious often poorly written emails before, asking you to open an attached form that needs filling out. The increase in email messages with malware attachments began Aug. 8 and peaked Aug. 12, according to eWeek, and spam outbreaks are reaching pre-Rustock takedown levels. Computerworld reported the global ratio of spam in e-mail traffic rose to 77.8 percent, indicating that currently one in 1.29 e-mails is a spam. Other stories report on how sophisticated Internet browsers have become more secure in defending against socially engineered malware attacks. CNET reports on a growing trend in cyber-attacks against social networks, prompting people to take proactive steps to protect their online privacy. In other news, NIST released the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE) Strategic draft plan for comments.

More Cyberattacks Hitting Social Networks – CNET
Brace for Email-Attachment Malware Spree – Network World
Anonymous Exposes Personal Data of BART Riders – San Francisco Chronicle
Data Thieves Target Hotels and Resorts – Los Angeles Times 


Security Research & Intelligence

Cybersecurity Tips – US-CERT
Kaspersky Report Praises Windows Security – Computerworld
Pharma Wars, Part II – Krebs on Security
APT Attackers Hiding in Plain Sight – Dark Reading


Cyber Threat

Recent Spam Outbreak Hits Pre-Rustock Takedown Levels – eWeek
DoD: Sharing cyber-threat info with contractors is working – Network World


Government, Legislation & Policy

Congressman says cyber attacks top threat to the U.S. outside of Al Quaeda, reports LA Times
National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education Strategic Plan: Building a Digital Nation – NIST
The Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative – White House, National Security Council
National Strategy for Trusted Identities in Cyberspace – White House blog
FBI warns of growing car-buying cyberscams – Network World


Blog Picks

The Dilemma of Counterterrorism Policy  – Bruce Schneier
Proxies and the Cloud (Public and Private) – Securosis
Nymwars: Thoughts on Google+ – David Mortman


Microsoft Research, Papers and Media

Cybersecurity/Internet Health

Rethinking the Cyber Threat (paper)
Collective Defense: Applying Public Health Models to the Internet (paper)
Video: Collective Defense: Enabling Healthy Devices (video)


Security Intelligence

Battling the ZBot Threat (paper)


Trustworthy Computing

Imagine Video: Microsoft Trustworthy Computing (video)


Cybersecurity/Trusted Supply Chain:

Supply Chain Risk Management keynote at the East-West Institute’s Second Worldwide Cybersecurity Summit (video)
Cyber Supply Chain Risk Management: Toward a Global Vision of Transparency and Trust (paper)
Toward a Trusted Supply Chain: A Risk Based Approach To Managing Software Integrity (paper)




	