
ClamAV for Windows 2.0 has officially launched.  This version contains a new GUI, numerous new detection features, a new prevention engine, and a ton of other features.  Check out ClamAV for Windows 2.0 (here)

New Features Include:
New GUI - Completely new UI for a better user experience.
Community Visualization – Graphical representation of your community and an understanding of the threat landscape.  Know where you, your country, and your community stand in relation to the rest of the world.
Community Notices – Stay up to date on the latest ClamAV for Windows news, emerging threats, and other relevant information.
New SPERO Engine – A new machine learning prevention and detection engine.
Enhanced companion support – Additional support of companion AV.

Not Familiar with ClamAV for Windows?
If you’re not one of the 150,000 current ClamAV for Windows 1.0 users and you have no idea what ClamAV for Windows is, here is a quick overview.  It is a free real-time desktop antivirus with some really innovative and unique features.  

Including but not limited to:
Fast Cloud based protections – ClamAV for Windows leverages the speed of cloud computing to deliver real-time protection to your PC
Light – ClamAV for Windows is up to 35 times lighter than traditional antivirus solutions.
Real-time – ClamAV for Windows provides cloud-based protection that is always up-to-date against viruses, spyware, bots, worms, Trojans, keyloggers without the need to download virus signatures every day.
Companionship – ClamAV for Windows is compatible with existing antivirus products to help protect you better.  What is better than some extra, free protection?
Community Aware – ClamAV for Windows allows you to setup a community of friends, family, and associates that help you detect new threats in your community.  Protection one, protect everyone.

Not Done Yet
ClamAV 0.96.2 has also been released, if you use ClamAV on your mail gateway, web proxy, desktop scanner, or anywhere it is time to upgrade to the latest version. Highlights of the release include:
Extended PDF parsing and extraction
Speed improvements on DB loading
Improved handling of Safebrowsing DB
Bytecode clean ups and improvements
Improved memory usage and speed improvements (40MB less than 96.1)

Numerous platform specific bugs, functionality bugs, and minor enhancements were also added.  Please see the ClamAV bug tracker for complete details.  Special thanks to all the users that added bugs and feature requests, we appreciate your feedback and support.

Still Not Done:
The roadmap for ClamAV for Windows 3.0 has been finalized.  In November of 2010 we’ll be releasing a fully integrated version of ClamAV for Windows that contains LibClamAV.  You’ll be able to use all your custom ClamAV signatures, the standard ClamAV signatures, and 3rd Party signature with ClamAV for Windows.  Keep a look out for more details on ClamAV for Windows 3.0 on the VRT Blog.

Finally Done:
As always, the Sourcefire VRT appreciates your support, use, and continued involvement in the ClamAV community. If you have bugs, feature requests, or cool ideas please check out the bug tracker and open your requests here.

