As always, customers are advised to follow these security best practices:


	Install vendor patches as soon as they are available.
	Run all software with the least privileges required while still maintaining functionality.
	Avoid handling files from unknown or questionable sources.
	Never visit sites of unknown or questionable integrity.
	Block external access at the network perimeter to all key systems unless specific access is required.


Microsoft's summary of the March 2019 releases can be found here:
https://portal.msrc.microsoft.com/en-us/security-guidance

This month's update covers vulnerabilities in:


	Internet Explorer
	Microsoft Edge
	ChakraCore
	Microsoft Office
	Microsoft Windows
	Jet Database Engine
	Visual Studio
	Windows Hyper-V
	Team Foundation Server
	Skype for Business and Lync


The following is a breakdown of the issues being addressed this month:


	
	Cumulative Security Update for Microsoft Browsers

	Chakra Scripting Engine Memory Corruption Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0592) MS Rating: Critical
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that the Chakra scripting engine handles objects in memory in Microsoft Edge. This vulnerability may corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Scripting Engine Memory Corruption Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0609) MS Rating: Critical
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way the scripting engine handles objects in memory in Microsoft browsers. This vulnerability may corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Scripting Engine Memory Corruption Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0639) MS Rating: Critical
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that the ChakraCore scripting engine handles objects in memory. This vulnerability may corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Windows VBScript Engine Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0666) MS Rating: Critical
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that the VBScript engine handles objects in memory. The vulnerability could corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Windows VBScript Engine Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0667) MS Rating: Critical
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that the VBScript engine handles objects in memory. This vulnerability may corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Scripting Engine Memory Corruption Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0680) MS Rating: Critical
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that the scripting engine handles objects in memory in Internet Explorer. This vulnerability may corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Internet Explorer Memory Corruption Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0763) MS Rating: Critical
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists when Internet Explorer improperly accesses objects in memory. This vulnerability may corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Scripting Engine Memory Corruption Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0769) MS Rating: Critical
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that the scripting engine handles objects in memory in Microsoft Edge. This vulnerability may corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Scripting Engine Memory Corruption Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0770) MS Rating: Critical
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that the scripting engine handles objects in memory in Microsoft Edge. This vulnerability may corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Scripting Engine Memory Corruption Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0771) MS Rating: Critical
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that the scripting engine handles objects in memory in Microsoft Edge. This vulnerability may corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Scripting Engine Memory Corruption Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0773) MS Rating: Critical
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that the scripting engine handles objects in memory in Microsoft Edge. This vulnerability may corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Microsoft Edge Privilege Escalation Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0678) MS Rating: Important
	A privilege escalation vulnerability exists when Microsoft Edge does not properly enforce cross-domain policies, which could allow an attacker to access information from one domain and inject it into another domain. In a web-based attack scenario, an attacker could host a website that is used to attempt to exploit the vulnerability.

	 

	Chakra Scripting Engine Memory Corruption Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0746) MS Rating: Important
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that the Chakra scripting engine handles objects in memory in Microsoft Edge. This vulnerability may corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Internet Explorer Security Bypass Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0768) MS Rating: Important
	A security bypass vulnerability exists when Internet Explorer VBScript execution policy does not properly restrict VBScript under specific conditions, and to allow requests that should otherwise be ignored. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could force the browser to send data that would otherwise be restricted.

	 

	Windows VBScript Engine Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0772) MS Rating: Important
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that the VBScript engine handles objects in memory. This vulnerability may corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Microsoft Edge Memory Corruption Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0779) MS Rating: Important
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists when Microsoft Edge improperly accesses objects in memory. This vulnerability may corrupt memory in such a way that enables an attacker to execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Microsoft Browser Memory Corruption Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0780) MS Rating: Important
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that Microsoft browsers access objects in memory. The vulnerability could corrupt memory in a way that could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Scripting Engine Memory Corruption Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0783) MS Rating: Important
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that the scripting engine handles objects in memory in Internet Explorer. This vulnerability may corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Microsoft Browsers Security Bypass Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0762) MS Rating: Important
	A security bypass vulnerability exists when Microsoft browsers improperly handle requests of different origins. The vulnerability allows Microsoft browsers to bypass Same-Site cookie restrictions, and to allow requests that should otherwise be ignored.

	 

	Microsoft Edge Security Bypass Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0612) MS Rating: Important
	A security bypass vulnerability exists when Click2Play protection in Microsoft Edge improperly handles flash objects. By itself, this bypass vulnerability does not allow arbitrary code execution. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Windows VBScript Engine Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0665) MS Rating: Important
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that the VBScript engine handles objects in memory. This vulnerability may corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 

	Chakra Scripting Engine Memory Corruption Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0611) MS Rating: Important
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that the Chakra scripting engine handles objects in memory in Microsoft Edge. This vulnerability may corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. Attackers can exploit this issue by enticing an unsuspecting user to view a specially crafted web page.

	 
	
	
	Cumulative Security Update for Microsoft Office

	Microsoft Office Access Connectivity Engine Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0748) MS Rating: Important
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists when the Microsoft Office Access Connectivity Engine improperly handles objects in memory. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could execute arbitrary code on a victim system.

	 

	Microsoft Office SharePoint XSS Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0778) MS Rating: Important
	A cross-site-scripting (XSS) vulnerability exists when Microsoft SharePoint Server does not properly sanitize a specially crafted web request to an affected SharePoint server. An authenticated attacker could exploit the vulnerability by sending a specially crafted request to an affected SharePoint server.

	 
	
	
	Cumulative Security Update for Microsoft Windows Kernel

	Windows Kernel Privilege Escalation Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0696) MS Rating: Important
	A privilege escalation vulnerability exists when the Windows kernel fails to properly handle objects in memory. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could run arbitrary code in kernel mode.

	 

	Windows Kernel Information Disclosure Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0702) MS Rating: Important
	An information disclosure vulnerability exists when the Windows kernel improperly handles objects in memory. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could obtain information to further compromise the user system.

	 

	Windows Kernel Information Disclosure Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0755) MS Rating: Important
	An information disclosure vulnerability exists when the Windows kernel improperly handles objects in memory. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could obtain information to further compromise the user system.

	 

	Windows Kernel Information Disclosure Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0767) MS Rating: Important
	An information disclosure vulnerability exists when the Windows kernel improperly initializes objects in memory. To exploit this vulnerability, an authenticated attacker could run a specially crafted application.

	 

	Windows Kernel Information Disclosure Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0775) MS Rating: Important
	An information disclosure vulnerability exists when the Windows kernel improperly handles objects in memory. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could obtain information to further compromise the user system.

	 

	Win32k Information Disclosure Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0776) MS Rating: Important
	An information disclosure vulnerability exists when the Win32k component improperly provides kernel information. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could obtain information to further compromise the user system.

	 

	Windows Kernel Information Disclosure Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0782) MS Rating: Important
	An information disclosure vulnerability exists when the Windows kernel fails to properly initialize a memory address. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could obtain information to further compromise the user system.

	 

	Win32k Privilege Escalation Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0797) MS Rating: Important
	A privilege escalation vulnerability exists in Windows when the Win32k component fails to properly handle objects in memory. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could run arbitrary code in kernel mode.

	 

	Win32k Privilege Escalation Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0808) MS Rating: Important
	A privilege escalation vulnerability exists in Windows when the Win32k component fails to properly handle objects in memory. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could run arbitrary code in kernel mode.

	 
	
	
	Cumulative Security Update for Microsoft Windows

	Windows DHCP Client Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0697) MS Rating: Critical
	A memory corruption vulnerability exists in the Windows DHCP client when an attacker sends specially crafted DHCP responses to a client. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could run arbitrary code on the client machine.

	 

	Windows DHCP Client Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0698) MS Rating: Critical
	A memory corruption vulnerability exists in the Windows DHCP client when an attacker sends specially crafted DHCP responses to a client. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could run arbitrary code on the client machine.

	 

	Windows DHCP Client Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0726) MS Rating: Critical
	A memory corruption vulnerability exists in the Windows DHCP client when an attacker sends specially crafted DHCP responses to a client. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could run arbitrary code on the client machine.

	 

	MS XML Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0756) MS Rating: Critical
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists when the Microsoft XML Core Services MSXML parser processes user input. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could run malicious code remotely to take control of the user system.

	 

	Windows ActiveX Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0784) MS Rating: Critical
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that the ActiveX Data objects (ADO) handles objects in memory. This vulnerability may corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user.

	 

	Windows Deployment Services TFTP Server Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0603) MS Rating: Critical
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that Windows Deployment Services TFTP Server handles objects in memory. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could execute arbitrary code with elevated permissions on a target system.

	 

	Windows GDI Information Disclosure Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0614) MS Rating: Important
	An information disclosure vulnerability exists when the Windows GDI component improperly discloses the contents of its memory. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could obtain information to further compromise the user system.

	 

	Windows Subsystem for Linux Privilege Escalation Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0682) MS Rating: Important
	A privilege escalation vulnerability exists due to an integer overflow in Windows Subsystem for Linux. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could execute code with elevated permissions.

	 

	Active Directory Privilege Escalation Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0683) MS Rating: Important
	A privilege escalation vulnerability exists in Active Directory Forest trusts due to a default setting that lets an attacker in the trusting forest request delegation of a TGT for an identity from the trusted forest. To exploit this vulnerability, an attacker would first need to compromise an Active Directory forest.

	 

	Windows Subsystem for Linux Privilege Escalation Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0689) MS Rating: Important
	A privilege escalation vulnerability exists due to an integer overflow in Windows Subsystem for Linux. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could execute code with elevated permissions.

	 

	Windows Subsystem for Linux Privilege Escalation Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0692) MS Rating: Important
	A privilege escalation vulnerability exists due to an integer overflow in Windows Subsystem for Linux. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could execute code with elevated permissions.

	 

	Windows Subsystem for Linux Privilege Escalation Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0693) MS Rating: Important
	A privilege escalation vulnerability exists due to an integer overflow in Windows Subsystem for Linux. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could execute code with elevated permissions.

	 

	Windows Subsystem for Linux Privilege Escalation Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0694) MS Rating: Important
	A privilege escalation vulnerability exists due to an integer overflow in Windows Subsystem for Linux. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could execute code with elevated permissions.

	 

	Windows SMB Information Disclosure Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0703) MS Rating: Important
	An information disclosure vulnerability exists in the way that the Windows SMB Server handles certain requests. An authenticated attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could craft a special packet, which could lead to information disclosure from the server.

	 

	Windows SMB Information Disclosure Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0821) MS Rating: Important
	An information disclosure vulnerability exists in the way that the Windows SMB Server handles certain requests. An authenticated attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could craft a special packet, which could lead to information disclosure from the server.

	 

	Windows SMB Information Disclosure Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0704) MS Rating: Important
	An information disclosure vulnerability exists in the way that the Windows SMB Server handles certain requests. An authenticated attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could craft a special packet, which could lead to information disclosure from the server.

	 

	Windows Denial of Service Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0754) MS Rating: Important
	A denial of service vulnerability exists when Windows improperly handles objects in memory. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could cause a target system to stop responding.

	 

	NuGet Package Manager Tampering Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0757) MS Rating: Important
	A tampering vulnerability exists in the NuGet Package Manager for Linux and Mac that could allow an authenticated attacker to modify a NuGet package's folder structure. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could potentially modify files and folders that are unpackaged on a system.

	 

	Windows Print Spooler Information Disclosure Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0759) MS Rating: Important
	An information disclosure vulnerability exists when the Windows Print Spooler does not properly handle objects in memory. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could use the information to further exploit the victim system.

	 

	Internet Explorer Security Bypass Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0761) MS Rating: Important
	A security bypass vulnerability exists when Internet Explorer fails to validate the correct Security Zone of requests for specific URLs. This could allow an attacker to cause a user to access a URL in a less restricted Internet Security Zone than intended.

	 

	Comctl32 Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0765) MS Rating: Important
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that comctl32.dll handles objects in memory.

	 

	Microsoft Windows Privilege Escalation Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0766) MS Rating: Important
	A privilege escalation vulnerability exists in Windows AppX Deployment Server that allows file creation in arbitrary locations. To exploit the vulnerability, an attacker would first have to log on to the system.

	 

	Windows GDI Information Disclosure Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0774) MS Rating: Important
	An information disclosure vulnerability exists when the Windows GDI component improperly discloses the contents of its memory. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could obtain information to further compromise the user system.

	 
	
	
	Security Update for Jet Database Engine

	Jet Database Engine Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0617) MS Rating: Important
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists when the Windows Jet Database Engine improperly handles objects in memory. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could execute arbitrary code on a victim system.

	 
	
	
	Security Update for Microsoft Windows Hyper-V

	Windows Hyper-V Denial of Service Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0690) MS Rating: Important
	A denial of service vulnerability exists when Microsoft Hyper-V Network Switch on a host server fails to properly validate input from a privileged user on a guest operating system. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could cause the host server to crash.

	 

	Hyper-V Denial of Service Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0695) MS Rating: Important
	A denial of service vulnerability exists when Microsoft Hyper-V on a host server fails to properly validate input from a privileged user on a guest operating system. To exploit the vulnerability, an attacker who already has a privileged account on a guest operating system, running as a virtual machine, could run a specially crafted application that causes a host machine to crash.

	 

	Hyper-V Denial of Service Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0701) MS Rating: Important
	A denial of service vulnerability exists when Microsoft Hyper-V on a host server fails to properly validate input from a privileged user on a guest operating system. To exploit the vulnerability, an attacker who already has a privileged account on a guest operating system, running as a virtual machine, could run a specially crafted application that causes a host machine to crash.

	 
	
	
	Security Update for Visual Studio

	Visual Studio Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0809) MS Rating: Important
	A remote code execution vulnerability exists when the Visual Studio C++ Redistributable Installer improperly validates input before loading dynamic link library (.DLL) files. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user.

	 
	
	
	Security Update for Team Foundation Server

	Team Foundation Server Cross-site Scripting Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0777) MS Rating: Low
	A Cross-site Scripting (XSS) vulnerability exists when Team Foundation Server does not properly sanitize user provided input. An authenticated attacker could exploit the vulnerability by sending a specially crafted payload to the Team Foundation Server, which will get executed in the context of the user every time a user visits the compromised page.

	 
	
	
	Security Update for Skype for Business and Lync

	Skype for Business and Lync Spoofing Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0798) MS Rating: Important
	A spoofing vulnerability exists when a Lync Server or Skype for Business Server does not properly sanitize a specially crafted request. An authenticated attacker could exploit the vulnerability by sending a specially crafted request to an affected server.

	 
	
	
	Security Update for Azure

	Azure SSH Keypairs Security Bypass Vulnerability (CVE-2019-0816) MS Rating: Moderate
	A security feature bypass exists in Azure SSH Keypairs, due to a change in the provisioning logic for some Linux images that use cloud-init. Extraneous Microsoft service public keys can be unexpectedly added to the VM authorized keys file in the limited scenarios.

	 
	


More information is available on Symantec's free Security Center portal and to our customers through the DeepSight Threat Management System.
