
		I have written about the threat landscape in Canada a couple of times over the years. Using new data from the latest volume of the Microsoft Security Intelligence Report, volume 19, I thought I’d take a fresh look at what has been happening in Canada as its been about a year since I last published an article on it.
If you are interested in reading some of the analysis I have done on the threat landscape in Canada in the past, please read these articles The Threat Landscape in Canada, The threat landscape in Canada & SecTor 2012. Additionally, last month I had the opportunity to speak at the Security Education Conference Toronto (SECTor 2015), Canada’s largest cybersecurity conference. You can watch a video of the presentation I gave at the conference as well as a video interview I did there: Cyberthreats: Microsoft’s Tim Rains on Putting Old Wine in New Bottles.
Starting with the encounter rate (ER) in Canada, which is the percentage of computers running Microsoft real-time security software in Canada that reported detecting malware, or report detecting a specific threat or family, during a quarter.  Most of these encounters are from systems running Microsoft Security Essentials or Windows Defender (on Windows 8.1) reporting that they blocked malware from installing on them. As Figure 1 illustrates, the ER in Canada has been below the worldwide average for many quarters; the worldwide average encounter rate in the second quarter of 2015 (2Q15) was 14.8%, while the ER in Canada was 12.5% during the same period.
Figure 1: the long-term encounter rate (ER) for Canada and the worldwide average per quarter for the period between the 3rd quarter of 2012 through the 2nd quarter of 2015


Although Canada’s ER has been below the worldwide average and that of France for some time, it has been elevated in some time periods compared to the ERs of the United Kingdom and the United States as illustrated in Figure 2.
Figure 2: the long-term encounter rates (ER) for Canada, France, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the worldwide average per quarter for the period between the 3rd quarter of 2012 through the 2nd quarter of 2015


Figure 3 illustrates the long-term view of malware categories encountered by systems in Canada for the time period between the third quarter of 2012 (3Q12) and the second quarter of 2Q15. This data helps us understand the types of threats that Canadians encounter most frequently in each time period. Attackers change their tactics over time to favor malware types that they hope will successfully compromise systems. But any success they have is fleeting as Microsoft and the rest of the security industry update protections to mitigate any threats that attempt to become relatively prevalent.
Figure 3: the long-term view of malware category encounter rates (ER) for Canada per quarter for the period between the 3rd quarter of 2012 through the 2nd quarter of 2015


Figure 3 shows us that the ER spike seen in Canada in 3Q14 was primarily due to an increase in encounters with malware families in the Trojan Downloaders & Droppers category. This category of threats was popular with attackers back in 2007, but we’ve seen a resurgence of these threats in more recent time periods.  The level of encounters with Exploits is also noteworthy as it suggests that Canadians have encountered exploit kits at relatively high frequency; Figures 4 and 5 support this supposition. Figure 4 shows us that the ER for Exploits was higher in Canada than the worldwide average in 2Q15. Figure 5 provides a list of the top 10 malware threats encountered by Canadians in 2Q15, where 3 of the top 10 malware families encountered in Canada were exploit kits.
Figure 4: malware category encounter rates for Canada versus the worldwide average in the 2nd quarter of 2015

Figure 5: the top malware families encountered in Canada in the 2nd quarter of 2015

Malware encounters are much more common than malware infections; i.e. a system has to encounter malware before there’s a chance for it to get infected with malware. On average, about 17.0 percent of reporting computers worldwide encountered malware over the four quarters ending in 2Q15. At the same time, the Microsoft Windows Malicious Software Removal Tool (MSRT) removed malware from about 7.1 out of every 1,000 computers, or 0.71 percent. Figure 6 illustrates the ER and the malware infection rate (CCM) for Canada and the worldwide average for recent time periods.
Figure 6: malware encounters and infections in Canada between the 3rd quarter of 2014 and the 2nd quarter of 2015


Figure 7 provides the top 10 list of malware families that infected systems in Canada in 2Q15. Notice that many of the threats on this list are different from the list of threats that were encountered in Canada during the same period (Figure 5). Many of these threats leverage social engineering and require user interaction in order to infect systems. You can get additional details on many of these threats in the Microsoft Malware Protection Center’s malware encyclopedia.
Figure 7: top threat families by infection rate (CCM) in 2Q15


A few noteworthy threats include Win32/Kilim, Win32/Alureon, and Win32/Zbot. Kilim is a threat family that can install malicious Google Chrome browser plug-ins and can then use your social media profiles to like, share, and follow pages without your permission. Alureon is a family of data-stealing Trojans can give a malicious hacker access to collect confidential information stored on a compromised PC, such as user names, passwords, and credit card data. They can also send malicious data to your PC and corrupt some driver files, making them unusable. Zbot is a family of Trojans that are created by kits known as “Zeus”. These kits are bought and sold on the black market and they can monitor online banking activities by hooking API addresses and injecting code into webpages.
Figure 8: top threat families by infection rate (CCM) in 2Q15


Many times, compromised systems are used to host malware hosting sites, phishing sites, drive-by download sites, etc. The relative levels of these web-based threats differ by country/region. Figure 8 shows us that in Canada levels of Phishing sites and malware hosting sites are slightly elevated above the worldwide average. To help put this into context, an example of a location with very high level of phishing sites is Bulgaria with 98.5 phishing sites per 1,000 hosts. A location with a high number of malware hosting sites is Brazil with 40.97 malware hosting sites per 1,000 hosts.
I hope you’ve found this analysis useful.
Tim Rains
Chief Security Advisor
Enterprise Cybersecurity Group
	