
This post is also available in:Українська (Ukrainian)As the Russia-led invasion intensifies, Ukraine is being attacked by bombs and bytes. Cisco is working around the clock on a global, company-wide effort to protect our customers there and ensure that nothing goes dark. 

Cisco Talos has taken the extraordinary step of directly operating security products 24/7 for critical customers in Ukraine while over 500 employees at Cisco have joined them to assist in collecting open-source (public) intelligence. 

In critical Ukrainian networks, we are taking advantage of advanced product features to create Ukraine-specific protections based on intelligence we have received. 

We are closely monitoring telemetry and aggressively convicting threats to protect both our Ukrainian and global customers. 

Customers with a mature security model should design their intelligence programs to drive changes in the organization's defensive posture based on their findings. 

We have been successful in our work in Ukraine up to this point and will continue to support our partners there until the crisis ends. 

Introduction 

You may not have noticed, but Cisco has been a different place in the past month. The unjust invasion of Ukraine, and the sense of helplessness we all have felt, has created a motivated collection of Cisco employees working to make life just a little safer and easier in a part of the world many have never been. Teams have set aside their normal tasks, and now watch over Ukranian networks, others have focused on caring for and protecting refugees and still others have turned their obsession with social media into a critical component of our open-source intelligence work. The plans have been creative and, while many would have been unthinkable just a week ago, approvals have come fast and everyone has been stretching far beyond their normal workload. 

In today's situation in Ukraine, lives and livelihoods depend on the up-time of systems. Trains need to run, people need to buy gas and groceries, the government needs to get messages out to civilians for morale and for safety. Cybersecurity can be invisible behind all of this. In this blog we talk about a small part of Cisco's response to this crisis. It is just one of many stories about how the people that make Cisco what it is have responded to an unprecedented crisis. There are lessons here for the defender as well, on what a world-class intelligence team can do when handed a network to defend and a capable set of security tools. But mostly this is a story about the people – from the cubicle to the C Suite – who would do what little they could. 

Read more » 



