
		The unprecedented scale and sophistication of modern cyberthreats, combined with the rapidly disappearing IT perimeter, means that while preventing an attack from becoming a breach is ideal, it is no longer realistic.
Microsoft proactively monitors the threat landscape for those emerging threats, to help better protect our customers. This involves observing the activities of targeted activity groups across billion of machines, which are often the first ones to introduce new exploits and techniques that are later used by other attackers.
So how can organizations defend against this triple threat?
Organizations need an approach to security that looks holistically across all critical endpoints, at all stages of a breach—before, during, and after. This means having tools that can not only protect against compromise, but can also detect the early signs of a breach and respond rapidly before it can cause damage to your system.
Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection is a new post-breach security layer, designed to reduce the time it takes to detect, investigate and respond to advanced attacks. This post-breach layer, assumes breach and is designed to complement prevention technologies in the Windows 10 security stack, such as: Windows Defender Antivirus, SmartScreen, and various other OS hardening features.
By leveraging a combination of deep behavioral sensors, coupled with powerful cloud security analytics, Windows Defender ATP offers unparalleled detection, investigation and response experience. It uses behavioral analytics proven to detect unknown attacks and security data from over 1B machines to establish what’s normal. This is then coupled with support from our own industry leading hunters. Recordings of activity across all endpoints in the last 6 months allow users to go back in time to understand what happened.
Windows 10 has the protection you need, built-in
Windows Defender ATP is built-in to Windows 10, and provides a comprehensive post-breach solution to help security teams identify suspicious threats on your network that pre-breach solutions might miss.
Windows 10 and Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection give you the future of cybersecurity NOW. Find out more at Microsoft Secure.
 
	