
		
Microsoft Ignite recently gathered 24,000+ attendees from around the world in Orlando, FL. CEO Satya Nadella kicked off an exciting week with his Vision Keynote by articulating how we enable digital transformation, specifically through empowering employees, engaging customers, optimizing operations, and finally through transforming products.
Commitment to security, privacy, and transparency
At the event, Microsoft reaffirmed its commitment to security, privacy, and transparency to its customers and partners through all the four main solution areas: Modern Workplace, Business Applications, Applications & Infrastructure, and Data & Artificial Intelligence. Julia White explained Microsoft’s approach to security during her session, Microsoft 365: Step up your protection with intelligent security.
Learnings from our customers and partners
During the event, the Microsoft team had the privilege to engage in 410,000 unique interactions within the Expo. In addition, 8,000+ labs were consumed, 54 sessions, two general sessions, 40 breakout sessions across CE, Windows and Office 365 tracks and 12 theater sessions. Our top three security takeaways were:

Build awareness of Microsoft’s commitment to security and privacy
Early and frequent product updates communications
Transparency from Microsoft equates to trust from customers

Key security related sessions to check out
Key security sessions we recommend you check out are based entirely upon feedback from our customers and partners who attended the sessions. Please take a moment to watch them and learn about new ways you can improve the security posture of your organization.

Shut the door to cybercrime with Azure Active Directory risk-based identity protection
Productivity and protection for your employees, partners, and customers with Azure Active Directory
Deep-dive: Azure Active Directory Authentication and Single-Sign-On
Azure Active Directory best practices from around the world
Learn how to use Microsoft Intune with the new admin console and Microsoft Graph API
Accelerate Azure information protection deployment and adoption
Learn about Microsoft Advanced Threat Analytics Futures
Saying goodbye to passwords
How to get Office 365 to the next level with Azure Active Directory Premium
What’s new and upcoming in AD FS to securely sign-in your users to Office 365 and other applications

On demand access to content
All breakout sessions and general sessions were recorded for on demand viewing. These recordings are now available at Microsoft Ignite on demand sessions. Please continue to share this link with your customers and partners. Labs will be available for 6 months through MyIgnite.
Conclusion
Microsoft Ignite was a fantastic week for all who attended. We not only shared product visions, but also, we listened and learned from engagements with customers and partners. With continued advances in our security offerings and development in better ways for partners to build a more modern, collaborative and secure work environment, it will be an exciting year for Security.
	