
		The RSA Conference is fast approaching and the agenda is packed with the latest technology, trends, and people that help protect our digital data. We’ll be there sharing our unique perspective through keynotes, deep-dive sessions, and on the expo floor.
Since planning your itinerary is a must to get the most out of RSA, here’s a preview of where and when you can learn about how Microsoft can help you be more secure.
Keynote Address by Brad Smith
Protecting and defending against cyber threats in uncertain times | Tuesday, February 14th, 8:35 a.m.
While many cyber attacks are the work of criminals seeking financial gain, new threats continue to emerge targeting civilians, businesses and governments. Microsoft President Brad Smith will share our perspective on what’s needed to protect and defend this critical infrastructure.
Microsoft in North Expo Hall, booth 3501
Come chat with the Microsoft Secure team in the North Expo. We’ll be there throughout the conference to show you how our $1 billion annual investment in security R&D helps organizations secure their environment and protect their customers.
Microsoft sessions at RSA Conference 2017
Tuesday, February 14th

A Vision for Shared, Central Intelligence to Ebb the Growing Torrent of Alerts | 1:15 p.m.– 2:00 p.m.
Despite the positive advancements in machine learning and intelligence, security professionals remain overwhelmed. How is it that we keep wasting time and energy on analyzing and assembling the information presented by our supposedly “intelligent” solutions? This session will explore a conjoint approach that would help our industry climb out of the sea of data that is most certainly going to drown us.
How to Go from Responding to Hunting with Sysinternals Sysmon | 1:15 p.m.–2:00 p.m.
Sysinternals Sysmon can help you precisely detect and track an attacker’s movement inside your Windows networks, but only if you know how to use it effectively. Get a deep dive from Sysmon’s author on its design, capabilities, latest enhancements, and guidance for collecting and alerting on its rich forensic data with popular log analytics services.
Advances in Cloud-Scale Machine Learning for Cyber-Defense | 3:45 p.m.–4:30 p.m.
Picking an attacker’s signals out of billions of log events in near real time from petabyte scale storage is a daunting task, but Microsoft has been using security data science at cloud scale to successfully disrupt attacker. This session presents the latest frameworks, techniques and the unconventional machine learning algorithms that Microsoft uses to protect its infrastructure and customers.
Wednesday, February 15th
Learnings from the Cloud: What to Watch When Watching for a Breach | 2:45 p.m.–3:30 p.m.
Protecting against account breach and misuse when using a cloud service can be challenging, as the cloud service decides what tooling is available, and control may be limited. This session will share learnings and best practices from the Office 365 engineering team: from the patterns observed, what are best practices to protect against account breach?
Securing the Making of the Next Hollywood Blockbuster | 1:30 PM–2:15 PM
Get a look behind the scenes at New Regency, the company that produced the Oscar-winning movie The Revenant to hear how employees collaborate and keep production secrets safe.
Friday, February 17th
Critical Hygiene for Preventing Major Breaches | 10:15 a.m.–11:00 a.m.
Microsoft’s Incident Response teams investigate major breaches week after week and almost always see the exact same pattern of attacks and customer vulnerabilities. Microsoft and the Center for Internet Security (CIS) will share step by step recommendations to defend against these attacks, including information on cybersecurity solutions that Microsoft has open-sourced to protect our customers.
Choose from nearly 40 theater sessions
Attend one of the 20-minute theater sessions in the Expo hall to learn more about a variety of topics including NextGen SOC, Risk Based Identity Protection, Office 365 Threat Intelligence, Detecting Threats from Enterprise Telemetry, Taking Ransomware to Task with Windows 10, and Security in Industrial IoT. Stop by booth #N3501
Explore more about our unique approach to security at Microsoft Secure.
	