
		
Microsoft Ignite begins this Sunday, September 24, with pre-day training and registration! The Microsoft Ignite event delivers the largest and most comprehensive perspective on the future of Enterprise technology at one conference. Everyone who attends— IT pros and Enterprise developers—gets inspiration, training, and connections to drive their business forward with Microsoft technology. 26,000+ IT and Enterprise developer customers and prospects come to collaborate and learn how Microsoft technology can help them achieve success.
Top three things to do before you go:

Download the mobile app

The mobile apps allow you to easily access My Conference, session details, evaluations, attendee networking, maps, event notifications, partners, and more. Download it now for your device: Window | IOS | Android


Set up your attendee profile

Connect with attendees at the events. Setting up your profile helps attendees discover Microsoft experts and get their questions answered. After your edits are complete, your profile will be updated in the apps and in MyIgnite.


Get ready for a great show

Confirm your hotel reservation
Familiarize yourself with our event and resources
Have fun!



Key security sessions to attend at Ignite

Create a modern workplace with Microsoft 365

Kirk Koenigsbauer, Brad Anderson, Catherine Boeger


Empower IT and developer productivity with Microsoft Azure

Scott Guthrie


Cloud infrastructure: Enabling new possibilities together

Jason Zander


Microsoft 365: Step up your protection with intelligent security

Julia White


Microsoft 365: Modern management and deployment

Brad Anderson, Rob Lefferts



But that’s not all, we have a huge selection of security related content, 345 sessions to be exact. Sessions have been designed to not only meet your product needs, but also your expertise needs. Find a complete list of security sessions here.
Who is attending from Microsoft
This year we are rolling out a fantastic new tool simply known as Expert Finder. All Microsoft staff will be tagged with the areas of expertise and can easily be located on the expo floor. Work with staff onsite at the Expo to locate the expert(s) that you need to speak with.
Where to find Security onsite: In the expo
We have full coverage of security topics in the expo. From getting help desk answers to seeing demos, you are sure to walk away with the information you need.
You’ll find us in the expo during the following times:

Monday: 12:30 – 7:30pm

Social hour: 5:30pm – 7:30pm


Tuesday: 10:00am – 6pm

Social hour: 5:30pm – 7:30pm


Wednesday: 10:00am – 6:00pm

Social hour: 5:30pm – 6:00pm


Thursday: 10:00am – 4:00pm

Below you can see where the Security area is located within the Expo, as noted by the red circle.

Networking opportunities
Ignite it not only about talking with the Microsoft experts, it’s also a great time to network with your peers. Here is a list of great opportunities for you to network during the event:

Immersion zone

Get “Hands-on”- you’ll find Labs, workshops, mixed reality experiences, learning experts and more!


Visit the security and privacy Microsoft Tech Community

Learn and see what other attendees are talking about. Then take the opportunity to not only to collaborate virtually, but set up time to network face-to-face while at the event.


Social hours

Wind down the day and enjoy a drink with security related professions, social hours are posted above.


Celebration event

More details to come, but on Thursday we have an amazing celebration event!



In the week following Ignite, we will summarize our lessons learned, product announcements, and customer feedback received from the event.
To learn more about Microsoft security solutions and services, visit https://www.microsoft.com/secure.
We hope you have a lot of fun, make amazing connections, and walk away with inspiring insights at this year’s Ignite conference. We’re looking forward to seeing you there!
	