
		This post is authored by David Burt, Senior Product Manager, Cloud Platform Marketing
A little over a year ago, we launched the Microsoft Trust Center at www.microsoft.com/trustcenter, which unified trust-related resources across our enterprise cloud services.  This week, we launched a completely redesigned and greatly expanded site with new content including EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) guidance, audit reports, and security assessments.

The Trust Center is an important part of the Microsoft Trusted Cloud initiative and provides support and resources for information professionals, as well as the legal and compliance community.  The Trust Center offers a rich set of resources, including in-depth information about security, privacy, and compliance offerings, policies, features, and practices across our cloud products, including Azure, Dynamics 365, Office 365, Power BI, Visual Studio Team Services, and Windows Server 2016.  Each content area is supplemented by a curated collection of hundreds of the most applicable and widely-used resources for each topic.
New enhancements to the Trust Center include:

Access to protected content, including SOC and ISO 27001 audit reports, certifications, and product security assessments, integrated into the Trust Center pages through the Service Trust Platform, which is available to customers with an active or trial subscription to one of Microsoft’s business cloud services.
A GDPR homepage that will serve as the company’s main resource for customers on the road to GDPR compliance, including guides to how some of our existing products and services, like Azure, Dynamics 365, and Office 365 can help you with the solutions you need to tackle each step of GDPR compliance.
Information and guidance specific to key organizational roles, including business managers, tenant admins or data security teams, risk assessment and privacy officers, and legal compliance teams.
New content areas, including resources for accessibility compliance, cybercrime, and industry-focused pages on finance, health, and media.

We are committed to providing you with guidance, documentation, and support you need to meet your security, privacy, and compliance goals. We will continuously improve the Trust Center to help make your job easier.
Visit http://www.microsoft.com/TrustCenter
	