










Beers with Talos (BWT) Podcast Ep. #47 is now available. Download this episode and subscribe to Beers with Talos:



If iTunes and Google Play aren't your thing, click here.



Ep. #47 show notes: 
Recorded Feb. 15, 2019

We are joined by special guest Michelle Dennedy, a vice president and the chief privacy officer at Cisco. This is a long episode that is worth every minute — covering everything from the modern privacy landscape, privacy as a fundamental human right, and all the ways you didn’t know underwear can protect you. We were a bit concerned about having a VP on, but after Michelle knocked us around a bit we figured out what was up. However, if this is the last EP you see listed, I think we all know what happened.

The timeline:



The topics
01:15 — Roundtable: Hi Michelle, let’s talk about Nessun dorma.
14:00 — Privacy is a fundamental human right
21:00 — The Privacy Lorax, the Privacy Nihilist, and universal identity
29:30 — Starting with morality and ethics instead of commercialization and legality
37:00 — Putting data on the balance sheet: The privenomics of information
52:00 — Who is Mitch? and the panty rules of passwords
55:00 — Michelle’s projects and book (you can get a free copy!)
1:01:30 — Can security and laws keep pace with privacy needs?
1:10:00 — Give me back my OJ, Senator.
1:13:00 — My dudes, Mitch Pinkerton rides again
1:17:00 — More cover fire: The rest of the underwear rules
1:20:00 — Closing thoughts and parting shots

The links
Marc Martel, "The Mercurotti"
Okamoto Tomotaka, Nessun dorma
David the Hairdresser, Nessun dorma
Aretha Franklin, Nessun dorma
Privacy Engineer’s Manifesto (also free for Kindle and Nook)
Cisco calls for privacy as a basic human right
Cisco Trust Center



==========



Special Guest: Michelle Dennedy, VP and Chief Privacy Officer at Cisco (@mdennedy)
Featuring: Craig Williams (@Security_Craig), Joel Esler (@JoelEsler), Matt Olney (@kpyke) and Nigel Houghton (@EnglishLFC).
Hosted by Mitch Neff (@MitchNeff).
Find all episodes here.

Subscribe via iTunes (and leave a review!)

Check out the Talos Threat Research Blog

Subscribe to the Threat Source newsletter

Follow Talos on Twitter

Give us your feedback and suggestions for topics:
beerswithtalos@cisco.com




