











Beers with Talos (BWT) Podcast Ep. #53 is now available. Download this episode and subscribe to Beers with Talos:


If iTunes and Google Play aren't your thing, click here.

Recorded May 10, 2019 — Election security has been a dominant headline for some time, so it’s high time we take a look at what that landscape looks like — where we are today, and how we got there in the first place. (Hint: there were deeper unintended consequences than Shiny Happy People on REM’s “Out of Time” album.) We anticipate gathering some first-time listeners due to the topic of this podcast... to you we say welcome, and yes, it’s always like this. 

Matt kicks us off today discussing the greatest nerd rock band of all time: Ninja Sex Party. If you haven’t heard of them, you are in the wrong and should fix that quickly. 

The timeline:

00:45 — Roundtable: The Dark Times are here, so we present to you, Ninja Sex Party.
16:15 — Election Security background: Let’s start with secret restaurants and smoking pineapples
22:30 — Thanks, Stipe. How REM set us up to fail, and what’s under the hood of the US voting system
38:00 — Where we are now versus even a couple years ago
53:40 — Closing thoughts and parting shots


Some other links:

The National Association of Secretaries of State
The National Association of State Election Directors
Belfer Center Defending Digital Democracy Project
U.S. Election Assistance Commission
Center for Internet Security
DEFCON Voting Village
Department of Homeland Security
Jeanette Manfra on Twitter
Matt Masterson on Twitter
Matt Blaze on Twitter
Election Infrastructure ISAC
Brennan Center for Justice

==========


Featuring: Craig Williams (@Security_Craig), Joel Esler (@JoelEsler), Matt Olney (@kpyke) and Nigel Houghton (@EnglishLFC). 

Hosted by Mitch Neff (@MitchNeff).


Subscribe via iTunes (and leave a review!)



Check out the Talos Threat Research Blog



Subscribe to the Threat Source newsletter



Follow Talos on Twitter



Give us your feedback and suggestions for topics: beerswithtalos@cisco.com








