


We are now just 48 hours away from the second annual Talos Threat Research Summit. After last year's success in Orlando, we are back and better than ever from San Diego on Sunday.

If you plan on attending, here's what you need to know before Sunday morning. Can't make it out? You can still stream our keynote address from Elizabeth Wharton at 8:10 a.m. PT by following us on Twitter.


Event Location
Marriott Marquis San Diego Marina
333 W Harbor Drive, San Diego, Calif. 92101
North Tower, Level 1, Pacific Ballrooms 14-20

Summit Check-in & Badge Pick-up
Your Talos Threat Research Summit registration will be designated on your Cisco Live badge. Your badge can be picked up at the San Diego Convention Center, Hilton Bayfront, Grand Hyatt, and Marriott Marquis at designated locations beginning at 3 p.m. Saturday. Visit our Know Before You Go page to see a full list of locations and times that badge pick up is available. Please pick up your badge on Saturday to ensure a speedy entry into the event on Sunday morning.

The event space opens on Sunday at 7:00 a.m. to serve breakfast and coffee. Breakfast will be served from 7 - 8 a.m.

Please note that at 8:30 a.m., overflow seating will be opened to guests on the standby list. If you arrive late, you may find that only overflow seating is available. Overflow seating does not include a table for your computer/tablet/notebook.

Event Speakers & Agenda
View the speaker list and full agenda on the Cisco Talos Threat Research Summit website.

Event Attire
Casual

Event Shuttle
Hotel Shuttles will be available from designated hotels to the San Diego Convention Center, which is directly next door to the Marriott Marquis San Diego Marina. Signage at the Marriott Marquis will guide you to the North Tower, Level 1, Pacific Ballrooms 14-20.

Cisco Webex Teams
To enhance your Cisco Talos Threat Research Summit program experience, we invite you to join a dedicated Webex Team space to engage with us during the event. Within the Team space, we’ll share announcements, post slide decks, and more. You’ll also be able to ask questions and get answers in live time and connect with your fellow Summit attendees. If you are new to Webex Teams, you will need to download the Webex Team app first before joining the dedicated Talos Summit Team space.

Social Media
Connect with Talos. Use #CLUS and #TTRS19 to connect with other attendees.

If your plans have changed and you no longer are able to attend the Cisco Talos Threat Research Summit, please notify us immediately at ttrs@cisco.com to cancel your registration.

Should you have any questions prior to your arrival please contact the Cisco Talos Threat Research Summit support team at ttrs@cisco.com.

We look forward to seeing you at the Threat Research Summit and at the Talos booth at Cisco Live later in the week.

