
Today we have released a new VirusTotal version, as usual, we would like to share with you the modifications and enhancements:


New URL scanning engines and malicious URL/domain datasets have been integrated in our URL scanner: Antiy-AVL, K7AntiVirus, Malware Patrol, Minotaur, WoT and zvelo. We want to give a warm welcome to all of them!
Whenever a scanned URL is a redirector, the redirected URL is also queued for scanning. The additional information section of the redirector URL will link to the report of the redirected URL. For example, that's exactly what happens when you scan http://www.virustotal.com, since it redirects to https://www.virustotal.com (SSL), you will see the redirected URL report link in the additional information section:




The National Software Reference Library information is back on VirusTotal and appears in the additional information section of the file scan reports whenever the analysed file is found in the NSRL database:





Many users missed the old interface's VirusTotal Community summary in file and URL reports. The summary box used to detail the number of users that voted a resource as malicious/benign and the aggregated reputation points of these users. In coherence with the requests received, we have added a Votes tab and the end of reports that shows who voted on a given resource and the number of file/URL reputation credits that the vote added to the file/URL's karma. Please note that the file/URL karma is computed via a formula that takes into account user votes, user reputation credits and other heuristics based on the different tools integrated in VirusTotal.





Certain tools were acting on the files but were not being displayed in the new interface (yet the old interface did show them), they now are displayed as usual in the additional information section: Clam AV potentially unwanted application file tagging, Symantec suspicious-insight file tagging, F-Secure Deepguard file tagging, Androguard android file analyser, Antiy-AVL unpacker, F-Prot unpacker, PE compilation timestamp, PE entry point, PE target architecture (machine type), PEiD packer identifier. 
VirusTotal Community members can now modify their password through their user settings.
You may also notice minor styling changes, such as the fact that malicious/benign voting icons have changed for angel/devil emoticons. The idea behind these modifications is to make the interface more intuitive.


In the meanwhile we are cooking very exciting enhancements that we really hope will please the Community, stay tuned. As always, we would love to hear from you.




Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to Facebook



