
		Are you working on cutting edge research on the future of cybersecurity policy? If so, you have less than 3 weeks left to enter our Cybersecurity 2020 essay contest for a chance to win the $5,000 cash prize!

Microsoft is looking for original research that answers one or both of the questions below, with a preference for entries that integrate quantitative analysis:

Which cybersecurity policy choices have the most impact on cybersecurity outcomes and, based upon your answer, are there “actionable” recommendations for policymakers? For example, have national-level regimes for securing government networks had a meaningful impact on cybersecurity?  How might those regimes be improved?  Additionally, for example, can cybersecurity policies impact user-level security?  And if so, how?

Given the growth in people, devices, and data connected to the Internet, how should policymakers adapt current approaches, and are there elements missing from the current policy landscape that should be created, or existing instruments that should be deprecated? For example, many global-level cybersecurity policy regimes were created when most Internet users were based on North America and Europe; will the rise in Internet users in Asia, Africa, and Latin America require changes to these regimes?  Additionally, for example, cybersecurity policies have been optimized for a desktop-centric world, where the computing machine, their operating systems, and often their users were fixed within a geography.  What changes are necessary to accommodate a more mobile-based world?

To enter, send an email to cyber-essay@microsoft.com with your essay in Microsoft Word format and include the following information: first name, last name, email address, and school / university. Entries must be received by 11:59 p.m. Pacific Time (PT) on June 14, 2013.  For more information, including official rules of the contest, please visit: www.microsoft.com/gssdcontest
We look forward to hearing from future cybersecurity policy leaders on how they would tackle these challenges.
 

	