
		Regulatory compliance is a hot topic among many of the customers I talk to. Of particular interest is compliance as it relates to the cloud. It is a challenging topic and there are many regulations that Chief Information Security Officers (CISOs) need to be aware of and adhere to and these can vary significantly by industry and location.
Today Trustworthy Computing is releasing an executive level article providing insight on the challenges, success factors and potential solutions of compliance from CISOs representing some of the world’s largest organizations. Our aim is to share and highlight some of the key things that other CISOs and information and security risk specialists might want to consider in relation to the topic of compliance.
The article discusses three areas of compliance – location, risk assessment and due diligence – and includes perspectives from some industry leaders:

Tom Doughty, Vice President and Chief Security Officer, Prudential Financial. Prudential Financial is an international financial services institutions with operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. More about Prudential Financial.
Kenneth Haertling, Vice President and Chief Security Officer, Telus Communications. Telus Communications a national telecommunications company in Canada. More about Telus Communications.
John Meakin, Chief Information Security Officer, Royal Bank of Scotland. Royal Bank of Scotland is an international banking and financial services company headquartered in Edinburgh. More about Royal Bank of Scotland.
Mark Estberg, Senior Director, Global Foundation Services at Microsoft. Global Foundation Services delivers the core infrastructure and foundational technologies for Microsoft’s over 200 online businesses including Bing, Hotmail, MSN, Office 365, Xbox Live and the Windows Azure platform.  More about Global Foundation Services.

If you are responsible for compliance in your organization then I strongly encourage you to check out this new article and I welcome your feedback below.
Tim Rains
Director
Trustworthy Computing
 
 
 
 

	