
		In less than two weeks, the world’s best and brightest security professionals will converge on the InterContinental Hotel San Francisco, CA for the second annual Security Development Conference! Don’t miss this opportunity to hear from industry experts who will discuss current security topics and issues.
Register Now using this discount code: IND@SDC#12
For more information, visit our website at www.securitydevelopmentconference.com or
contact us at sdc@eventpoint.com
Speakers and topics include:
Howard Schmidt
Join Howard Schmidt, executive director of the Software Assurance Forum for Excellence in Code (SAFECODE), partner in the strategic advisory firm, Ridge Schmidt Cyber, and former cyber security advisor to the president, in this fireside chat to learn more about the important role developers can play in shaping the future of security. After a brief introduction and interview with Steve Lipner, Partner Director of Software Security at Microsoft, Howard Schmidt will take questions from the audience.
Scott Charney
Scott Charney serves as Microsoft’s Corporate Vice President for Trustworthy Computing, Engineering Excellence, and Environmental Sustainability. Scott will be presenting on Building Market Demand for Security Development Through Standards – Hear Microsoft’s perspective on how security development standards and developer transparency can help drive greater trust in software devices and services.
Edna M. Conway
Edna M. Conway serves as Cisco’s Chief Security Strategist for the company’s Global Supply Chain. In this capacity, she is leading Cisco’s strategy to assess, monitor, and continuously improve the security of its global value chain. She also leads Cisco’s supply chain cyber protection plan, serving on the company’s Cybersecurity Board and Risk and Resiliency Operating Committee. Edna will be presenting on the importance of Supply Chain Integrity, and security disciplines to drive visibility and security in each node of the value chain.
Brad Arkin
Brad Arkin is the Senior Director of Security for Adobe products and services. Brad’s keynote, titled “Accepting Defeat and Changing the Battle Plan,” will explore new approaches to achieve desired results for information security, based on Adobe’s own experiences abandoning “best-practices” in favor of innovative alternative strategies which were able to deliver results where tradition failed.
In addition to the above keynotes, the conference will include over 20 breakout sessions, which cover the latest in security development techniques and processes for reducing risk and protecting organizations in the rapidly evolving technology landscape. Equally importantly, the conference provides an opportunity to compare notes with professionals in software development and critical infrastructures regarding SDL processes at their organizations.

	