
		We are bringing together the best and brightest security professionals at the second annual Security Development Conference, May 14-15, 2013 at the InterContinental San Francisco Hotel. Join us as we spend two days immersed in content covering the latest in security development techniques and processes that can reduce risk and help protect organizations in this rapidly evolving technology landscape.
Attendees can expect sessions filled with information pertinent to their role in the security industry led by experts in the field. Speakers at SDC 2013 come from a variety of leading security companies giving attendees the opportunity to learn from their peers. Learn more about the SDC 2013 keynote speakers and see why this is an event you can’t afford to miss.
Brad Arkin, Senior Director of Security, Adobe Secure Software Engineering Team (ASSET)Brad Arkin leads the Adobe Secure Software Engineering Team (ASSET) responsible for ensuring Adobe’s products are designed, engineered and validated using security best practices, as well as the Product Security Incident Response Team (PSIRT) dedicated to responding to and communicating about security issues. Arkin also oversees the Corporate Standards Group responsible for coordinating Adobe’s involvement with standards bodies such as the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), as well as the open source and accessibility teams.
Scott Charney, Microsoft Corporation, Corporate Vice President, Trustworthy ComputingScott Charney serves as Microsoft’s Corporate Vice President for Trustworthy Computing, Engineering Excellence, and Environmental Sustainability. Trustworthy Computing is Microsoft’s effort to help ensure secure, private and reliable computing experiences for everyone. As part of this effort, the Trustworthy Computing team works with business groups throughout the company to ensure their products and services adhere to Microsoft’s security and privacy policies. Engineering Excellence is responsible for supporting Microsoft’s engineering community by providing Microsoft engineers with learning and development opportunities, as well as by discovering and propagating engineering best practices across the company and into the IT ecosystem. Finally, Environmental Sustainability focuses on using the power of software to help reduce mankind’s impact on the environment, as well as managing Microsoft’s own environmental footprint.
Edna Conway, Cisco Systems, Inc., Chief Security Strategist, Global Supply ChainEdna M. Conway serves as Cisco’s Chief Security Strategist for the company’s Global Supply Chain. In this capacity, she is leading Cisco’s strategy to assess, monitor, and continuously improve the security of its global value chain. She also leads Cisco’s supply chain cyber protection plan, serving on the company’s Cybersecurity Board and Risk and Resiliency Operating Committee. Conway serves as the Vice-chair of The Open Group’s Trusted Technology Forum, a public-private effort to establish an international standard for trusted technology provider status. She oversees Cisco’s participation in various efforts to deliver international supply chain security and technology standards which meld the goals of the Information & Communication Technology community and its customers’ increasing focus on the integrity of that technology (e.g. ISO, iNEMI, IPC and The Common Criteria).
Register by March 1st and Save $400 USD*.
*Early Bird Registration ends March 1, 2013 at 11:59 pm PST; discount is shown in United States Dollars only.
 

	