
		Posted by Adrienne Hall, general manager, Trustworthy Computing with special guest Bobby Jimenez, chief technology officer of Sindicatum Sustainable Resources

The cloud continues to transform the way organizations do business. CIOs are identifying business priorities and gaining IT efficiencies such as rapid deployment and the flexibility to grow and contract as their needs change over time.
The security features in Office 365 are helping organizations positively offset their historical security management budget and thus freeing up IT personnel to work on projects that are directly focused on their core business.
Last year I met with Bobby Jimenez, chief technology officer of Sindicatum Sustainable Resources, in Singapore about his company’s move to the cloud and today he reports on green IT, reduced costs and time efficiencies gained through Office 365. In his words, Mr. Jimenez shares his cloud experience:
“Sindicatum had taken great strides in reducing its costs and carbon footprint while facilitating employee collaboration. Office 365 has enabled our company to take a giant leap forward in these areas:
Reduced Carbon Footprint
A study conducted by Microsoft together with Accenture and WSP Environment & Energy found that energy use and carbon emissions can be reduced by more than 90 percent for small deployments. Based on this, our estimates show that moving to the cloud reduces our carbon footprint in the near term by 30 percent.
Reduced Cost
By reducing the dependences of on-premise servers and the time required to manage them, we have significantly reduced our IT costs usually allocated for server infrastructure maintenance and support.
Fast Migration and Growth
Sindicatum was able to migrate to Office 365 in less than two months and our employees didn’t need extensive training to use the web-based solution. The power and ease-of-use of Office 365 provides the company with more ways to grow. Office 365 allows us to enjoy the same powerful business productivity tools as larger enterprises, while also giving our growing organization the flexibility and scalability to stay competitive in today’s connected marketplace.”
______
As Bobby shared, Sindicatum’s move to a Cloud Service has contributed to their carbon reduction goals,  reduced costs and increased agility.
The security features in Office 365 are helping organizations positively offset their historical security management budget and thus freeing up IT personnel to work on projects that are directly focused on their core business.
Whatever your business priorities may be right now, it’s important to develop a holistic, thoughtful approach to cloud adoption. Microsoft’s cloud services are Windows Azure, Dynamics, and Office 365, which can be adopted in any flavor (public or private) according to the needs of an enterprise.
 

	