
		Information and Communications Technology (ICT) offers great benefits for states and their citizens alike—increased efficiency and transparency in government, improvements in civil society, and it has become a major driver of economic growth. Yet along with these benefits have come new threats, including cybercrime such as identity theft and fraud, politically motivated attackers who threaten critical infrastructure, and sophisticated economic and military espionage. A series of recent cyberattacks have disrupted the critical operations of major energy and financial companies. These developments, and others, have made cybersecurity a top priority for governments around the world, and have led many countries or regions to begin developing national strategies for cybersecurity.  A national cybersecurity strategy outlines a vision and articulates priorities, principles, and approaches to understanding and managing risks at the national level. Priorities for national cybersecurity strategies will vary by country or region. In some countries or regions, the focus might be on protecting critical infrastructure risks, while other countries might focus on protecting intellectual property, and still others might focus on improving the cybersecurity awareness of newly connected citizens.
Drawing upon Microsoft’s decades of experience working with government and industry, we have created a set of recommendations for developing a national strategy for cybersecurity. This morning we released these recommendations in a new white paper, entitled Developing a National Strategy for Cybersecurity: Foundations for Security, Growth, and Innovation by Paul Nicholas, Senior Director, Global Security Strategy and Diplomacy and Cristin Goodwin, Senior Attorney Legal and Corporate Affairs.  
Please download and read:  Developing a National Strategy for Cybersecurity: Foundations for Security, Growth, and Innovation.
You can also read Paul and Cristin’s post on the “On the Issues” blog: Developing a National Strategy for Cybersecurity: Foundations for Security, Growth, and Innovation.
Tim RainsDirectorTrustworthy Computing
 
 
 
 

	