
		Posted by Paul Nicholas & Cristin Goodwin
Senior Director, Global Security & Diplomacy and Senior Attorney, Legal & Corporate Affairs
Over the past decade, citizens around the world have been witness to an urban renaissance. For the first time in history, more than 50% of the world’s population lives in urban settings and it is expected that by 2050 nearly 70% of us – more than 6 billion people – will live in cities. Already 80% of the world’s GDP is created in cities. They are centres of higher education and advanced technological innovation—engines of new ideas in transportation, smart infrastructure, and environmental sustainability. These cities—together with its schools, businesses, and civic organizations—drive economic growth.      .
However, cities are also facing daunting and immediate challenges: the economic realities of aging infrastructures, outdated transportation modes, and insufficient affordable housing are straining cities’ ability to sustain its growing number of citizens. Microsoft introduced its Model National Cybersecurity Strategy last year to help governments make the complex challenge of cybersecurity easier to manage from a public policy perspective. Yet we recognized that cities are also facing similar challenges to creating a unified approach to cybersecurity, as its reliance on information and communication technology systems expands to meet the needs of a modern urban environment. These cities cannot wait for its national-level policymakers to implement cybersecurity policies, but rather cities must act now to protect the assets, systems and networks vital to maintain its stability and resiliency.
Our new white paper, Developing a City Strategy for Cybersecurity, contains seven steps, based on years of experience of working with national and local authorities, that can help city leaders develop or improve their cybersecurity strategies and to work within other transformational programs aimed at increasing resilience. To help cities define the tasks within each step, we have identified specific recommendations and best practices. These steps may be customized based on the needs of the city and will provide a framework for a workable and effective strategy:

Build a risk-based approach to cybersecurity
Set clear priorities
Define minimum ICT security baselines
Share and coordinate threat and vulnerability information
Build incident response capabilities
Boost public awareness, education, and workforce training
Enable public, private, and academic cooperation

We invite you to read our new white paper, and we look forward to engaging with policymakers and customers in the months ahead to share our perspectives on the critical challenge of strengthening city approaches to cybersecurity. We hope that the strategy can help cities enhance the integrity, availability, manageability, and confidentiality of its information, citizen services, and business operations.
	