
		Many years ago I was in a gang. Think short trousers, treehouses and walkie-talkies made from string and tin cans rather than the streets of LA. To be in our gang we had a rule; you had to each pick another member and tell him something in private, something only you and he would know.
Needless to say we all knew each other’s secret within a few minutes. Fortunately at Microsoft we take privacy a lot more seriously, and have been for more than a decade. Our approach is based on the simple philosophy that your data is your data. We don’t own it or have any claim on it or entitlement to it which is why we don’t capture, maintain, scan, index, or mine enterprise customer data for any marketing or advertising purposes.

We see our role as responsible stewards of our customers’ data.



This commitment begins in the development of our software and services, which follows a set of internal guidelines, called the Microsoft Privacy Standard. Our comprehensive governance program includes assessments that identify and mitigate privacy risks, and help ensure that privacy requirements are met throughout the development cycle.
As a result, our enterprise cloud services include world-class privacy features like Data Loss Prevention (DLP), Rights Management Services (RMS), and various access controls that help customers manage risks to their own data.

As a global company, we strive to adhere to international data protection standards, and we include our commitments in our contractual agreements.

For example, we are the only cloud vendor whose commercial contracts meet the European Union Data Protection Authorities’ stringent standards for international transfers of data. This recognition by the “Article 29 Working Party” ensures that…

… our customers can use Microsoft services to move data freely through our cloud from Europe to the rest of the world.

We also recognize the recent concerns over government access to data, which have sparked a global debate about the appropriate balance between public safety and data privacy. As a result, Microsoft fought for and won the right to publish more information about governmental demands for customer data pursuant to national security laws.
Microsoft is also pushing all governments to be more transparent and enact common sense reform. We have joined other technology companies in pushing to Reform Government Surveillance and have demanded the U.S. government take specific steps to help rebuild public trust. Brad Smith – our General Counsel & Executive Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs blogged on this topic earlier this year.
Thanks for reading. This blog is the second in a four part series on trust in the cloud. You can see the first blog, on cybersecurity, here.

	