
		It is not uncommon to hear organizations of all sizes – small startups to large enterprises cite benefits such as scalability and cost savings as reasons to move to the cloud. The cloud can also free up resources enabling organizations to focus more on their core business. However, when it comes to choosing a cloud provider, how do you decide who to trust with your most sensitive information? For many organizations, they want reassurance that their cloud service provider has the right capabilities to keep their organization’s data secure and private. They want a provider that has deep awareness of the cybersecurity landscape, is able to respond immediately to threats that might surface, and ultimately they want confidence their provider will do what it takes to deliver a secure, private and a regulatory compliant cloud experience. This blog and video kicks-off a new multi-part series that focuses on how Microsoft works to deliver the most trustworthy cloud services in the industry.
At Microsoft, we have strict operational policies and procedures for protecting customer information .  For our cloud services, we utilize the Operational Security Assurance (OSA) framework, which details our approach to security controls such as vulnerability scanning, patch management, encryption and much more. It’s a framework designed to continually evolve our operational security practices in the cloud to keep pace with changes in the threat landscape.
Microsoft customers benefit from OSA in a number of ways. For example, this approach helps ensure our infrastructure is more resilient to attack by decreasing the amount of time needed to prevent, detect and respond to real and potential Internet-based security threats, thereby increasing the security of those services for customers.
To learn more about OSA and how it helps keep Microsoft’s cloud services secure, watch Diane McDade, senior director, Policy Management, and Mike Reavey, general manager, Secure Operations, in the Trustworthy Cloud video series to discuss the OSA framework.
For additional information on the OSA framework, read the whitepaper
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kVI7LLsvs_8
	