
		OneDrive is free online storage that’s built into Windows 8.1 and Windows RT 8.1. Add files from your PC to OneDrive, and then easily access your photos, music, documents, and other files on all the devices you use.
How you can help protect your privacy and security in OneDrive
Create a strong password for your Microsoft Account. You sign into OneDrive with your Microsoft Account. Here is some basic guidance on how to create a strong password for that account. Different sites have different rules for passwords that they’ll accept, but this guidance should work anywhere you need to create a password:

Length. Make your passwords at least eight (8) characters long.
Complexity. Include a combination of at least three (3) uppercase and/or lowercase letters, punctuation, symbols, and numerals. The more variety of characters in your password, the better.
Variety. Don’t use the same password for everything. Cybercriminals can steal passwords from websites that have poor security and then use those same passwords to target more secure environments, such as banking websites. Check the strength of your password.

Manage who can view or edit your OneDrive files. By default, your OneDrive files are available to you, although you can choose to share photos, documents, and other files. To share files or folders, right-click them and choose how you want to share them.
Add security info to your Microsoft account. You can add information like your phone number, an alternate email address, and a security question and answer to your account. That way, if you ever forget your password or your account gets hacked, we can use your security info to verify your identity and help you get back into your account. Go to the Security info page.
Use two-step verification. This helps protect your account by requiring you to enter an extra security code whenever you sign in on a device that isn’t trusted. For more information about two-step verification, see Two-step verification: FAQ.
Back up your OneDrive files. For details about using File History in Windows, see Set up a drive for File History.
For more information about how Microsoft helps keep your files safe in the cloud, see Privacy in OneDrive.

	