
		The rapidity of change in the cyberthreat landscape can be daunting for today’s cyber defense teams. Just as they perfect the ability to block one attack method, adversaries change their approach. Tools like artificial intelligence and machine learning allow us to pivot quickly, however, knowing what cyber trends are real and which are hype can be the difference between success or struggle. To help you figure where to focus your resources, Kevin Beaumont joined me on Afternoon Cyber Tea.
Kevin is a thought leader on incident detection and response. His experience running Security Operations Centers (SOC) has given him great insight into both the tactics used by attackers and how to create effective cyber teams. While our discussion took place before he joined Microsoft, his insights remain of great value as we look at how current cyber trends will evolve past the pandemic.
In this episode, he shares his cyber experience on everything from the role ransomware plays in the monetization of cybercrime, to what attack vectors may Peak, Plateau, or Plummet, and which trends that are here to stay.
What’s next
In this important cyber series, I talk with cybersecurity influencers about trends shaping the threat landscape and explore the risk and promise of systems powered by AI, Internet of Things (IoT), and other emerging tech. As we work on how to help empower every person and organization on the planet achieve more, we must look at how we combine our security learnings with examining how today’s cybersecurity investments will shape our industry and impact tomorrow’s cybersecurity reality.
You can listen to Afternoon Cyber Tea with Ann Johnson on:

Apple Podcasts—You can also download the episode by clicking the Episode Website link.
Podcast One—Includes the option to subscribe, so you’re notified as soon as new episodes are available.
CISO Spotlight page—Listen alongside our CISO Spotlight episodes, where customers and security experts discuss similar topics such as Zero Trust, compliance, going passwordless, and more.

In the meantime, bookmark the Security blog to keep up with our expert coverage on security matters. Also, follow us at @MSFTSecurity for the latest news and updates on cybersecurity. Or reach out to me on LinkedIn or Twitter if you have guest or topic suggestions.
	