
		Organizations have been digitally transforming at warp speed in response to the way businesses operate and how people work. As a result, digital security teams have been under immense pressure to ensure their environments are resilient and secure. Many have turned to a Zero Trust security model to simplify the security challenges from this transformation and the shift to remote work.
Over the past year, we have been hard at work helping customers navigate these challenges by listening to their difficulties, sharing our own learnings, and building controls, tools, and practices that enable the implementation of Zero Trust. However, one of the things we hear most consistently is the need for additional deployment support.
We are excited to announce the launch of the Zero Trust Deployment Center—a repository of information to improve their Zero Trust readiness as well as specific guidance on implementing Zero Trust principles across their identities, endpoints, data, applications, networks, and infrastructure. The Zero Trust Deployment Center breaks down deployment guidance into plain-language objectives across each of the technology pillars, providing an actionable list of steps needed to implement Zero Trust principles in your environment.
This repository is the perfect place to start planning and deploying your Zero Trust strategy.

Figure 1:  Zero Trust Deployment Center web page.
If you are already well underway in your journey, these objectives will provide a great framework to help measure your progress and ensure you are meeting critical milestones. If you’re interested in measuring your Zero Trust maturity, we’ve also created a Zero Trust assessment tool to help measure your current maturity and identify possible next milestones and priorities along with technologies.
Learn more about Zero Trust and Microsoft Security. Also, bookmark the Security blog to keep up with our expert coverage on security matters. And follow us at @MSFTSecurity for the latest news and updates on cybersecurity. 
	