
		COVID-19 has rapidly transformed how we all work. Organizations need quick and effective user security and awareness training to address the swiftly changing needs of the new normal for many of us. To help our customers deploy user training quickly, easily and effectively, we are announcing the availability of the Microsoft Cybersecurity Awareness Kit, delivered in partnership with Terranova Security. For those of you ready to deploy training right now, access your kit here. For more details, read on.
Work at home may happen on unmanaged and shared devices, over insecure networks, and in unauthorized or non-compliant apps. The new environment has put cybersecurity decision-making in the hands of remote employees. In addition to the rapid dissolution of corporate perimeters, the threat environment is evolving rapidly as malicious actors take advantage of the current situation to mount coronavirus-themed attacks. As security professionals, we can empower our colleagues to protect themselves and their companies. But choosing topics, producing engaging content, and managing delivery can be challenging, sucking up time and resources. Our customers need immediate deployable and context-specific security training.
CYBERSECURITY AWARENESS KIT
At RSA 2020 this year, we announced our partnership with Terranova Security, to deliver integrated phish simulation and user training in Office 365 Advanced Threat Protection later this year. Our partnership combines Microsoft’s leading-edge technology, expansive platform capabilities, and unparalleled threat insights with Terranova Security’s market-leading expertise, human-centric design and pedagogical rigor. Our intelligent solution will turbo-charge the effectiveness of phish simulation and training while simplifying administration and reporting. The solution will create and recommend context-specific and hyper-targeted simulations, enabling you to customize your simulations to mimic real threats seen in different business contexts and train users based on their risk level. It will automate simulation management from end to end, providing robust analytics to inform the next cycle of simulations and enable rich reporting.
Our Cybersecurity Awareness Kit now makes available a subset of this user-training material relevant to COVID-19 scenarios to aid security professionals tasked with training their newly remote workforces. The kit includes videos, interactive courses, posters, and infographics like the one below. You can use these materials to train your remote employees quickly and easily.

For Security Professionals, we have created a simple way to host and deliver the training material within your own environment or direct your users to the Microsoft 365 security portal, where the training are hosted as seen below. All authenticated Microsoft 365 users will be able to access the training on the portal. Admins will see the option to download the kit as well. Follow the simple steps, detailed in the README, to deploy the awareness kits to your remote workforce.

ACCESSING THE KIT
All Microsoft 365 customers can access the kit and directions on the Microsoft 365 Security and Compliance Center through this link. If you are not a Microsoft 365 customer or would like to share the training with family and friends who are not employees of your organization, Terranova Security is providing free training material for end-users.
Deploying quick and effective end-user training to empower your remote workforce is one of the ways Microsoft can help customers work productively and securely through COVID-19. For more resources to help you through these times, Microsoft’s Secure Remote Work Page for the latest information.
	