
		I’m proud to announce that Microsoft is positioned as a Leader in The Forrester Wave™: Enterprise Detection and Response, Q1 2020. Among the Leaders in the report, Microsoft received the highest score in the current offering category. Microsoft also received the highest score of all participating vendors in the extended capabilities criteria. We believe Microsoft’s position as a Leader in this Forrester Enterprise Detection and Response Wave is not only a recognition of the value we deliver with our endpoint detection and response capabilities through Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (ATP), but recognition for our customers for their help in defining a market-leading product they really need and love using.
Microsoft Defender ATP, our endpoint protection solution, received the highest score possible (5 out of 5) in the endpoint telemetry, security analytics, threat hunting, ATT&CK mapping, and response capabilities criteria, as well in the Performance and Planned Enhancements criteria. The endpoint detection and response capabilities built into Microsoft Defender ATP empower defenders to achieve more and focus on remediating the threats that will have the biggest impact to their organization. Our broad and deep optics into the threat landscape and our built-in approach to security make our offerings unique.
The recently announced Microsoft Threat Protection, a solution that expands Microsoft Defender ATP from endpoint detection and response (EDR) to an extended detection and response (XDR) solution by combining our endpoint protection with protection for email and productivity tools (Office ATP), identity (Azure ATP), and cloud applications (Microsoft Cloud App Security), received the highest score of all participating vendors for its extended capabilities. As customers face cross-domain attacks, such as email phishing that leads to endpoint and identity compromise, Microsoft Threat Protection looks across these domains to understand the entire chain of events, identifies affected assets, like users, endpoints, mailboxes, and applications, and auto-heals them back to a safe state.
Microsoft is dedicated to protecting companies from real cyberattacks. We are focused on product excellence, innovation, and cutting-edge technology. The success of our customers is our highest priority, which is why we put such a strong emphasis on product excellence to translate the more than $1 billion a year investment, collaboration with over 100 Microsoft Intelligent Security Association (MISA) partners, and more than 3,500 security professionals into real, cloud-delivered protection for our customers. These partnerships, investments, and continuous innovation have led us to secure this leading spot as a provider that “matters most.”
For us, this latest recognition is a testament to our research and product teams’ ongoing commitment to provide our customers with an effective and comprehensive security solution and adds to a growing list of industry recognition of Microsoft Defender ATP.
This is our first time participating in this Forrester Enterprise Detection and Response Wave and we are truly excited to have been recognized as a Leader. It’s another proud milestone in our endpoint security journey with Microsoft Defender ATP and Microsoft Threat Protection to building an industry-leading endpoint and XDR solution that customers love.
Download the full report and read the analysis behind Microsoft’s positioning as a Leader.
For more information on our endpoint security platform, or to sign up for a trial, visit our Microsoft Defender ATP page.
 
The Forrester Wave™: Enterprise Detection and Response, Q1 2020, Josh Zelonis, March 18, 2020.
This graphic was published by Forrester Research as part of a larger research document and should be evaluated in the context of the entire document. The Forrester document is available upon request from https://reprints.forrester.com/#/assets/2/108/RES146957/reports.
	