
		I’m excited to announce that, last week, Gartner listed Microsoft as a Leader in its 2020 Magic Quadrant for Unified Endpoint Management. You can read the entire report here, and you can see a snapshot of the Magic Quadrant below.
You will note that we improved on both the “Ability to Execute” and “Completeness of Vision” axes.
A major culture principle within the Microsoft Endpoint Manager team has been to place the ultimate measure of value on usage, and we have built our products accordingly. We extend this principle in our belief that customers choose to run their businesses with the products that offer IT the best combination of value and functionality, and provide the organization with the best user experience.
Our desire is to be an organization that constantly listens to and learns from our customers. Our successes are the result of very concrete changes we’ve made to the way we operate. The acceleration of customer value and simpler solutions are the result of very deliberate changes we made in engineering focus and in the things we choose to celebrate. When we stopped celebrating the shipment of a new product and instead started throwing all our energy into supporting our customers’ usage goals, our customers experienced greater value and benefit.
It isn’t about shipping. It isn’t about revenue. It’s usage that will always be the foremost leading indicator of the value for our customers—and it is by making the effort to focus our team on customer usage that enabled us to create and sustain an organization-wide culture that recognizes and rewards the behaviors that guarantee your long-term success.
To be clear, we have always considered Configuration Manager and Intune to be one solution—but we made it official in the last year bringing them together as Microsoft Endpoint Manager.
This made all the difference in our progress with Endpoint Manager reflected in this report. We are innovating faster, we have more customer empathy, and we are delivering more value than ever before to more customers than we ever thought possible.
According to the Gartner report, “Drastic change and a global pandemic marked a tumultuous year in the UEM market. The past 12 months magnified legacy CMT limitations and drove I&O leaders to UEM for reduced complexity, location-agnostic device management, and analytics to track and improve device performance and end-user experience.”
Maximize what you learn from the Magic Quadrant
As you evaluate these conclusions and determine the best course of action for your company, consider what trends and market forces were driving the ultimate conclusions made by Gartner, and superimpose this perspective on the unique needs of your organization.
Also, of course, don’t hesitate to reach out to Microsoft for more information, or, as always, go ahead and reach out to me on Twitter or LinkedIn.

Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Unified Endpoint Management, August 11, 2020.
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
To learn more about Microsoft Security solutions visit our website. Bookmark the Security blog to keep up with our expert coverage on security matters. Also, follow us at @MSFTSecurity for the latest news and updates on cybersecurity. Follow @MSIntune for the latest news on endpoint management.
	