
		Howdy folks,
I’m proud to announce that for the fourth year in a row, Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) has been recognized as a “Leader” in Gartner Magic Quadrant for Access Management, Worldwide.

Earlier this year, my boss, Joy Chik, CVP of Identity Engineering shared Microsoft’s guiding principles of our identity and access management (IAM) strategy, emphasizing our commitment to delivering a secure and scalable identity solution. Azure AD safeguards access to your apps by enforcing strong authentication and adaptive risk-based access policies, providing seamless user access with single sign-on (SSO) and reduced IT costs. We envision Azure AD as the key to embracing a Zero Trust security model, enabling secure application access and greater productivity across users, apps, and devices.
Consistently landing in Gartner Magic Quadrant for the past four years tells us that we’re executing on our vision and making a difference for you, our customers.
We’ve learned from your resilience in adapting to remote work over the past year, and your direct feedback has shaped our advancements in several areas:

Adaptive security: Azure AD natively offers comprehensive logging, dashboard, and reporting capabilities, as well as identity analytics with Azure AD Identity Protection.
Secure application access: Azure AD supports out-of-the-box single sign-on (SSO) and provisioning connectors to thousands of SaaS apps, as well as authentication for legacy on-premises applications through App Proxy and secure hybrid-access partnerships.
Report-only mode: The report-only (or audit-only) mode enables administrators to evaluate the impact of Conditional Access policies before enabling them for users.
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines: We’re proud of our commitment to inclusion and accessibility by design, which goes beyond meeting Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) compliance to providing a positive experience for all users.
API access control: We offer built-in centralized policy management, management of security tokens, token translation, and developer self-service support. In addition, Azure AD offers native integration with the Azure API Management service or with third-party API gateway products for more advanced API security.
Open standards: Azure AD offers support for all major identity standards, including SAML 2.0, WS-Fed, OIDC, OAuth 2.0, and password vaulting with JavaScript-based login form filling.

We’re honored to place this well for the fourth time and believe it reflects the energy and passion we’ve put into partnering with our customers to help them successfully digital transform their businesses. That said, there’s lots more work to do, and we look forward to continuing to partner with you, our customers, to assure the products we build keep your organizations secure and productive. We’re grateful for your trust, and I look forward to seeing what we can accomplish together in the coming year.

To learn more about Microsoft Identity solutions visit our website.  Bookmark the Security blog to keep up with our expert coverage on security matters. Also, follow us at @AzureAD and @MSFTSecurity for the latest news and updates on identity and cybersecurity.
This graphic was published by Gartner, Inc. as part of a larger research document and should be evaluated in the context of the entire document. The Gartner document is available upon request from Microsoft.
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product, or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
	