
		Today on the Official Microsoft Blog, Ann Johnson, Corporate Vice President of the Cybersecurity Solutions Group, shared how Microsoft is helping turn the tide in cybersecurity by putting artificial intelligence (AI) in the hands of defenders. She announced the general availability of Microsoft Threat Protection, new platforms supported by Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (ATP), new capabilities in Azure Sentinel, and the general availability of Insider Risk Management in Microsoft 365.
Today, we’re also announcing:

An expanded public preview of FIDO2 security key support in Azure Active Directory (AD) to encompass hybrid environments. Workers can now sign in to work-owned Windows 10 devices with their Azure AD accounts using a FIDO2 security key instead of a password and automatically get single sign-on (SSO) to both on-premises and cloud resources.
New integration between Microsoft Cloud App Security and Microsoft Defender ATP that enables endpoint-based control of unsanctioned cloud applications. Administrators can now control the unauthorized use of cloud apps with protection built right into the endpoint.
Azure Security Center for IoT now supports a broader range of devices including Azure RTOS OS, Linux specifically Ubuntu and Debian, and Windows 10 IoT core. SecOps professionals can now reason over signals in an experience that combines IT and OT into a single view.
Two new features of Office 365 Advanced Threat Protection (ATP), campaign views and compromise detection and response, are now generally available. Campaign views gives security teams a complete view of email attack campaigns and makes it easier to address vulnerable users and configuration issues. Compromise detection and response speeds the detection of compromised users and is critical to ensuring that attacks are blocked early, and the impact of a breach is minimized.
In partnership with Terranova, we will offer customized user learning paths in Office 365 ATP later this year. User education needs to be part of every organization’s security strategy and we are investing to raise security awareness training efficacy.

These innovations are just a part of our commitment to built-in and cross-platform security that embraces AI and is deeply integrated together.
This integration also spans a broad ecosystem of security vendors to help solve for our customers’ security and compliance needs. We now have more than 100 members in the Microsoft Intelligent Security Association, including new members such as ServiceNow, Thales, and Trend Micro, and new IoT security solution providers like Attivo Networks, CyberMDX, CyberX, SecuriThings, and Firedome to alleviate the integration challenges enterprises face.
To recognize outstanding efforts across the security ecosystem, on February 23, 2020—the night before the RSA Conference begins—we’ll host our inaugural security partner awards event, Microsoft Security 20/20, to celebrate our partners.
Good people, supported by AI and automation, have the advantage in the ongoing cybersecurity battle. That’s why we continue to innovate with new security and compliance solutions to help our customers in this challenge.
	