






Beers with Talos (BWT) Podcast episode No. 91 is now available. Download this episode and
subscribe to Beers with Talos:
Apple Podcasts  Google Podcasts  Spotify  Stitcher

If iTunes and Google Play aren't your thing, click here.

By Mitch Neff.
Recorded Aug. 14, 2020

Let’s talk about FUD. It’s not enough to just say FUD sucks.  Let’s talk about exactly how and why producers of FUD are garbage nightmare monster people.  We also cover how they are actually damaging themselves, not just the people and organizations that buy their hype. We have rather strong opinions on this, so we invited Meredith Corley, an actual professional on the topic, to break it down for us all.  Meredith is our security communications and PR director (previously of Cisco Duo and BlackHat fame) and takes us through spotting, defusing and refuting FUD in the security community. And for more on FUD, you can also listen to the Talos Takes episode covering this topic.

 The timeline:

00:45 — Roundtable: Making music, machining metal, and missing merriment
07:30 — Meet Meredith. She isn’t just a security comms boss, she is OUR security comms boss
09:00 — Defining FUD: How it differs from other misinformation tactics
12:30 — The systematic media/buyer route. Why FUD works.
19:30 — The long-term detriment to purveyors and consumers of FUD
26:00 — FUD and trust cannot coexist - choosing trust is the only defensible option
32:30 — There is a time for everything, except for FUD in the marketplace
34:30 — Closing shots, parting thoughts



The links:

Fighting Cybersecurity FUD (Security Week)
Why Security Pros Are Addicted to FUD (CSO)
Cut the FUD (HelpNet Security)
War of the Currents (Wikipedia)
What to Expect When You’re Electing: Election Security Primer (Talos)







==========

Featuring: Craig Williams (@Security_Craig), Joel Esler (@JoelEsler), Matt Olney (@kpyke), and Nigel Houghton (@EnglishLFC).Special guest: Meredith Corley (@MeredithCorley).Hosted by Mitch Neff (@MitchNeff).






Subscribe via iTunes (and leave a review!)







Check out the Talos Threat Research Blog







Subscribe to the Threat Source newsletter







Follow Talos on Twitter







Give us your feedback and suggestions for topics: beerswithtalos@cisco.com




