

Today’s world looks very different than three months ago. More people work remotely than ever before. IT teams work around the clock to expand capacity and new software and services are being deployed to handle the load. Within this new remote environment, we have seen new malware families and threat actors taking advantage of our current situation by increasing spam and phishing schemes.

Cisco Talos Incident Response wants to help address the increased need for security planning and responding to unknowns by instituting a new, lower price to provide even more access to our Incident Response retainer for more organizations. This fully-fledged offering will be available at a reduced price through July 25th. In addition to the programs for Cisco Umbrella, Duo Security, and Cisco AnyConnect, Talos IR helps organizations secure their entire workforce with an added layer of protection from our seasoned incident response consultants. 

If you missed the webinar, the replay is available to hear how Talos IR provides remote services to help you improve your response strategy, regardless of where you are in your lifecycle:  


Don’t have a plan yet or it’s been a while since you last looked at it? Seasoned responders build out the roadmaps and the associated plans for how to respond to incidents with IR Plan and Playbook development.  
You should ideally test your response plan yearly, if not more frequently. Discover gaps in policies, procedures, or processes- and learn where your strengths lie as well- with a customized and interactive Tabletop Exercise that can be delivered remotely. 
Need a deeper look at your technical readiness? A Readiness Assessment includes customized recommendations for your environment based off multiple data points, including previous incidents, current roles and responsibilities, organizational design, patching operations, logging capabilities, and more. 


One of the great things about being a part of Cisco is our unbeatable customer and partner support in a time of need.  We know times have changed, and we’re changing the way we do business to make it easier to protect your customers, employees, and families. With the Cisco Capital program, you can defer payments until 2021 while still managing to further secure your organization throughout this time.  

If you have any questions, or to find out more about Talos Incident Response please contact your Cisco representative or email us at pandemicsupport@cisco.com. 

