
		In Gartner’s third annual Magic Quadrant for Cloud Access Security Brokers (CASB), Microsoft was named a Leader based on its completeness of vision and ability to execute in the CASB market. Microsoft was also identified as strongest in execution.
Gartner led the industry when they defined the term CASB in 2012. We believe their report points out a key fact for the market, that Microsoft currently has the largest customer base of all participating vendors. We believe that this, along with being ranked as a Leader, reflects our continued commitment to building the best possible solution for our customers and our goal to find innovative ways of helping them better protect their Microsoft and third-party cloud apps and platforms.

This recognition comes at a great point in our evolution journey. The development of Microsoft Cloud App Security is guided by a strong vision to provide a customer-centric, best-in-class CASB solution that easily integrates with our customers’ existing environment, simplifies deployment, and optimizes the experience for admins, SecOps, and end users alike.
In customer conversations, many of them embrace a similar set of key product differentiators, some of which are also referred to in the Gartner report including:

The ability to monitor and control any app across cloud, on-premises, and custom apps.
Extensive integration across products, while also offering the ability to integrate with third-party solutions.
Extensive set of built-in threat-protection policies and a user and entity behavior analytics (UEBA) interface that provides a consolidated risk timeline and score for each user to help prioritize investigations across hybrid identities.

As we continue to build powerful, new capabilities for our CASB offering, we’re leveraging the unique ability to natively integrate with other best-in-class solutions from Microsoft’s Security and Identity portfolio including Azure Active Directory, Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection, Microsoft Intune, and more. This allows us to deliver unique CASB capabilities, provide customers with fully integrated solutions across their portfolio, and achieve single-click deployments.
CASBs are essential to any modern Cloud Security strategy to provide a central point of monitoring and control. It enables IT departments to ensure secure access and protect the flow of critical data with a consistent set of controls across the increasing number of apps and cloud workloads.
With Microsoft Ignite around the corner, we look forward to more exciting announcements in November. As you continue to plan for the needs of your organization, please let us know how we can support the work you’re doing with Microsoft 365 by reaching out to your account team.
Learn more
Read the complimentary report for the analysis behind Microsoft’s position as a Leader.
For more information about our CASB solution, visit our website and stay up to date with our blog. Want to see our CASB in action? Start a free trial today.
Gartner Magic Quadrant for Cloud Access Security Brokers, Steve Riley, Craig Lawson, 22 October 2019.
*This graphic was published by Gartner, Inc. as part of a larger research document and should be evaluated in the context of the entire document. The Gartner document is available upon request from Microsoft.
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product, or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. 
	