
		The infrastructure, data, and apps built and run in the cloud are the foundational building blocks for a modern business. No matter where you are in your cloud journey, you likely utilize every layer of the cloud—from infrastructure as a service (IaaS) to platform as a service (PaaS) to software as a service (SaaS). You also may take advantage of services from several cloud and app providers. Many organizations operate a cross-cloud environment, but it can complicate security. A fragmented view of your cloud environment limits opportunities to holistically improve your security posture. It can also lead to missed threats and SecOps burnout.
To address these challenges, we provide a set of comprehensive Cloud Security solutions to protect every layer of the cloud—from Amazon Web Services (AWS) to Microsoft Azure (Azure) to Google Cloud Platform (GCP)—from Slack to Salesforce to your line of business apps.
Microsoft is in a unique position as a cloud provider and security vendor. We leverage global cloud-scale, trillions of signals and deep expertise to build industry-leading security solutions to protect cloud resources.
Our Cloud Security solutions can help you:

Realize integrated visibility and protection across clouds with Cloud Security Posture Management and Cloud Workload Protection Platform solutions.
Develop and secure your custom apps in the cloud with our Application Security services.
Monitor and control user activities and data across all your apps with our leading Cloud Access Security Broker (CASB).

Realize integrated visibility and protection across clouds
No matter which cloud services and apps you use, you need an all-inclusive view across all of them to protect your intellectual property and assets. You also need tools to help you block and mitigate threats. Cloud Security Posture Management and Cloud Workload Protection Platform are solutions that give you the visibility and capabilities to understand your cross-cloud environment and better secure it.
Cloud Security Posture Management 
Azure Security Center continuously monitors your cross-cloud resources such as virtual machines, networks, applications, and data services. You can quickly assess your security posture with Secure Score, a feature of Security Center. Secure Score provides a numerical value for your current state and recommends actions. This scoring system offers best-practice guidance that can help prevent common misconfigurations—such as exposure of sensitive resources to the internet, lack of encryption, uninstalled updates, or a missing firewall for your cloud workloads.
Key benefits include:

A bird’s-eye security posture view.
Ability to continuously monitor and protect all your cross-cloud resources.
Best practice recommendations.
Visibility into the compliance state of your Azure environment.

Cloud Workload Protection Platform 
Security Center doesn’t just evaluate your security posture, it also provides tools to help you reduce your attack surface. Using machine learning to process trillions of signals across from around the globe, Security Center alerts you of threats to your environments, such as remote desktop protocol (RDP), brute-force attacks, and SQL injections.
Protect Windows and Linux servers, cloud-native applications, data services, and your Azure IoT solutions from malicious threats. For every attack attempted or carried out, you receive a detailed report and recommendations for remediation.
Key benefits include the ability to:

Detect and block advanced malware and threats from Linux and Windows Servers on any cloud.
Protect cloud-native services from threats.
Protect data services against malicious attacks.

Protect your Azure IoT solution with near real-time monitoring.
Develop and secure your custom apps in the cloud
Application Security services
By uniting previously siloed roles of development, operations, security, and testing, DevOps has enabled faster application development. When you’re moving fast, it can be easy to miss a step that could make your apps vulnerable. Microsoft Application Security services offers operations and development tools that help you identify potential threats before you put your application in production. Best-practices documentation and the Secure DevOps toolkit help you build security into your apps.
Our Application Security services also help you secure your open source apps. GitHub can you help you secure your software supply chain and integrate security into your code-to-cloud workflows.
Key benefits include the ability to:

Build secure applications faster.
Protect every layer of your application.
Receive guidance to help you succeed.
Understand and secure your open source software supply chain.
Integrate security into your open source code-to-code workflows.

Monitor and control user activities and data across all your apps
Cloud Access Security Broker 
Our internal data shows that in the average enterprise, users leverage more than 1,000 cloud apps and services, half of which go unmonitored by IT. The increasing number of apps—and the different ways users can access them—challenge IT departments to ensure secure access and protect the flow of critical data. Cloud Access Security Broker services are a new generation of solutions that give IT department tools to address these challenges.
Our leading Cloud Access Security Broker solution, Microsoft Cloud App Security, provides rich visibility into your shadow IT, enables you to identify and remediate cloud native attacks, and allows you to control how your data travels across all of your cloud apps—whether they’re from Microsoft or third-party applications. The solution integrates natively with other leading Security and Identity solutions from the broader Microsoft portfolio to provide you with the simplest deployment and powerful threat intelligence and powerful User and Entity Behavior Analytics (UEBA) to help you address the most modern attacks.
Key benefits include:

Centralized monitoring and control for all apps:

Discover and control shadow IT.
Identify and remediate cloud-native attacks.
Protect your information in real-time with powerful inline controls.


Built for a seamless admin and user experience:

Customizable automation capabilities.
Native integrations.
Optimized for a global workforce.




		
			
				
			

			
				Microsoft Cloud App Security
				Elevate your security posture by taking control of your cloud environment.
				Start free trial
			
		

		
Learn more
Our Cloud Security solutions enable you to safeguard your cross-cloud resources.

Learn how Security Center can help improve your security posture and protect resources.
Follow Microsoft’s best practices to improve your custom application security posture.
Learn how Microsoft Cloud App Security can help you discover and protect your third-party apps.
Bookmark the Security blog to keep up with our expert coverage on security matters.
Follow us at @MSFTSecurity for the latest news and updates on cybersecurity.

	