
		It is turbulent times we live in. The same technology that provides unprecedented global connections and productivity also provides hackers unprecedented surface area to commit headline-earning crimes. That’s why Microsoft is investing over $1 billion annually in security capabilities and connecting dots across the critical endpoints of today’s cloud and mobile world to help you keep up with security challenges.
Join Ann Johnson and myself as we talk about the Top 5 security threats facing your business – and how to respond, on June 29th at 10:00 am PST to discover our unique approach to security and how to benefit from the insight into the threat landscape that Microsoft derives from trillions of signals from billions of sources.
Change comes fast. It used to be that many organizations would lock down their networks and not even allow external web browsing from within their networks. Today, users need to be connected to people all over the world, using all kinds of social media tools, and other applications, most in the cloud. New devices are coming on the market that have the potential to boost productivity in ways we’ve never seen. To not allow these actions and tools would doom your organization to obscurity. But cybercriminals have become more sophisticated, too. How do you avoid a security breach while still allowing employees to stay ahead of the curve? We’ll cover this balance in our webinar.
Microsoft has taken an end to end look at these issues, and has solutions that cross products, technologies, and platforms.
On the front lines, your employees hold the key to your network’s security every time they log on or open an email. Windows 10, with Microsoft Passport and Windows Hello, and Azure Active Directory, which we will touch on in the webinar, help you go beyond passwords and put authentication in the tough-to-replicate physical world of the user’s machine and biometrics. And Office 365 can help identify and isolate malicious attachments and links in your users’ emails before they harm your network.
Devices too. Your company laptop used to be pretty bare-bones, right? Use it for work, and that’s it. You had your own toys to use for personal stuff, and as time wore on those devices became more and more indispensable to your daily life. People started to connect to email servers from their phones, and the lines started blurring from there. It can create a security nightmare for IT, especially since everyone has a different favorite platform. We created Microsoft Enterprise Mobility Suite to ensure secure interactions with your network no matter what the device or platform. We will also cover ensuring device security while enabling mobile work in our webinar.
And then there’s the cloud. So many questions about security, manageability, control. Well, your employees aren’t waiting for you to figure it out; 80% of employees’ report using cloud apps that aren’t approved by IT. With Microsoft Cloud App Security, you can discover all the cloud apps in use on your network, and decide which ones to allow or block.
Say yes to rolling with the changes. Boost your organization’s productivity and rest assured that your network is protected because we have connected the dots in today’s cloud and mobile world.
Don’t miss out! Register today and join us on June 29, 2016 at 10:00 PST, for Top 5 security threats facing your business – and how to respond.
Julia White
General Manager, Cloud + Enterprise
	