
		RSA Conference 2016 is fast approaching. The conference agenda is packed to cover the rapidly evolving issues in information security, with trust in cloud computing at the forefront. We’ll be there to lead industry discussions about trust in keynotes, deep-dive sessions and the expo hall.
Since planning your itinerary is a must to get the most out of RSA, here’s a preview of where and when Microsoft Security and Trusted Cloud activities are happening.
Preconference at the CSA Summit
Monday, Feb. 29, 2 p.m.
Leap Day, leap event — if you’re attending the ancillary Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) Summit, check out Microsoft GM Doug Hauger’s Trusted Cloud keynote. He’ll share the results of a recent survey on the “trust gap” between on-premises and cloud services, and examine the factors that drive trust in security leadership thought processes when making trust decisions.
Brad Smith’s keynote
Tuesday, March 1, 8:50 a.m.
Trust in the Cloud in Tumultuous Times
We are living in extraordinary times. While the evolution of cloud computing has transformed the way we work, recent geopolitical events have precipitated debates on the roles that governments and industry should play in defending and securing society, and the appropriate balance between security, privacy and the freedom of expression. Join Microsoft President and Chief Legal Officer Brad Smith as he puts modern events into context and discusses a path forward.
Trusted Cloud in North Expo, booth 3505  
Come chat with the Trusted Cloud team at the Microsoft booth in the North Expo. We’ll be there throughout the conference to discuss trust in cloud computing and answer your questions about security, privacy, compliance and transparency.
Microsoft and Trusted Cloud sessions at RSA 2016
Monday, Feb. 29
TCG: Securing the IoT With Trusted Computing 8:30 a.m.–12:30 p.m.
The root of security in the Internet of Things begins with trust, including trusted device identity and secure communications with protection of sensitive information. These foundational elements must come together to provide a more secure IoT solution. In this half-day RSA Conference session, you’ll hear from Microsoft Software Architect Paul England and industry leaders and see demonstrations of IoT security in action.
Wednesday, March 1
Hot Topics in Privacy: A Conversation with Adobe, Google and Microsoft  1:10 PM – 2:00 PM 
Rapid expansion of social media, mobile devices, sharing culture and the Internet of Things pushed privacy to the top of consumers’ minds. With a pending European Data Protection Regulation, consumers want control of their data and breaches. There is no end to privacy issues facing society. Join privacy leaders from Google, Adobe and Microsoft as they explore the hot topics facing the industry.
Bringing Cybersecurity to the Boardroom 3:30 PM – 4:20 PM
As cybersecurity becomes a more pressing issue to the enterprise, security leaders are finding themselves presenting cybersecurity risks and strategies to a new group: the board of directors. Microsoft CVP and CISO Bret Arsenault will share his learnings on working with boards to provide the right level of risk awareness and to drive informed investments for an enterprise-level cybersecurity program.
Wednesday, March 2
Machine Learning and the Cloud: Disrupting Threat Detection and Prevention 10:20–11:10 a.m.
Machine learning with large data sets gives unprecedented insights and anomaly detection capability. Mark Russinovich, chief technology officer for Microsoft Azure, will explain how Microsoft uses the agility and scale of the cloud to protect its infrastructure and customers. Learn about the application of data mining and machine learning algorithms and security domain learnings to the vast amounts of data and telemetry gathered by its many different systems and services.
SaaS Attacks Happen: How cloud scale changes the security game 10:20 AM – 11:10 AM
Gain insights into how cloud security engineering is evolving to not only meet the unique risks of SaaS, but to leverage the advantages that this scale and uniformity can offer. Take a behind-the-scenes look at how Office 365 applies these unique SaaS security principles to protect hosted users and organizations from breach
Tracking Hackers on Your Network With Sysinternals Sysmon 11:30 a.m.–12:20 p.m.
Sysinternals Sysmon is an advanced system monitoring service that logs file manipulation, process and image loading, and other events that can be used to identify the presence of an attacker. Microsoft Azure CTO Mark Russinovich continues his RSA teaching tour with tips and tricks that will help you get the most out of this powerful hacker hunting tool.
Using Cloud-Scale Intelligence to Address Security Challenges 11:30 a.m.–12:20 p.m.
The rise of the cloud brings a new wave of evolution in security challenges. Microsoft CVP and CISO Bret Arsenault and Julia White, Cloud Platform general manager, will suggest new approaches that users and providers of cloud services can take to secure cloud platforms. They’ll examine Microsoft’s role in the world of cloud security, explain how to use cloud-scale security intelligence to improve protection, and discuss how to work with partners to enable additional security tools.  
Thursday, March 3
Managing Complex M&A Security Risks — A Detailed Case Study 9:10–10 a.m.
In this informative talk, Microsoft Director of Information Security & Risk Management Ahmad Mahdi will walk through the step-by-step approach one information security organization took to secure a massive acquisition with a global footprint. The acquisition included thousands of new employees and a myriad of technical, geopolitical and financial considerations.
Deconstructing Identity in Security 9:10–10 a.m.
Identity experts from across the industry — including Kim Cameron, Microsoft chief identity architect and distinguished engineer — will tackle tough questions and offer unique points of view on the role identity plays in security. They will deconstruct what identity means to security by sharing how their companies are building identity into the most popular cloud services in the world, and by showing what can be done to strengthen identity in a borderless world.
Data Classification—Reclaiming Infosec’s Redheaded Stepchild   9:10 AM – 10:00 AM
This session will explore the changing role data classification plays in data centric security and why security teams need to own the process.
Cloud Attacks Illustrated: Insights From the Cloud Provider 11:30 a.m.–12:20 p.m.
The past five years has seen remarkable growth in cloud services, and the trend is only growing stronger. As expected, attackers have been fast to respond and adapt attacks to cloud computing trends. Microsoft’s Craig Nelson, Azure security response manager, and Tomer Teller, senior security research PM, will show you the latest attack surfaces, trends, statistics and vectors that Microsoft has gathered from its own public cloud infrastructure.
Cloud Attacks Illustrated: Insights From the Cloud Provider (Focus-On) 2:10–3 p.m.
Continue the Cloud Attacks Illustrated: Insights from the Cloud Provider topic in a smaller group discussion and Q&A with Craig and Tomer. Note that this discussion-based session is limited to 50 attendees and no new slides will be presented. Admission to this session is first come, first served, so make sure to check the RSA program for scheduling details.
Managing Complex M&A Security Risks — A Detailed Case Study (Focus-On) 2:10–3 p.m.
Continue the earlier Managing Complex M&A Security Risks conversation in a smaller group with Q&A with Ahmad Mahdi. As noted in the Focus-On session above, attendance is limited to 50 and no new slides will be presented. Check the RSA program for details about Focus-On sessions.
Managing Complex M&A Security Risks – A Detailed Case Study (Discussion Session)  2:10 PM – 3:00 PM
Continue the Managing Complex M&A Security Risks – A Detailed Case Study conversation in a smaller group discussion and Q&A with the presenter. This session will be discussion based—no new slides will be presented. This session is limited to 50 attendees. Adding a session to your Schedule does not guarantee you a seat. Admission to this session is on a first come, first served basis.
	