
		Being one of the more established companies in IT has its advantages. At Microsoft, we’ve seen IT management and the datacenter morph and change over time. Our technology has powered and protected some of the biggest and most complex systems in the world. 
And we’ve learned a thing or two from all this experience. 
We’re bringing our experiences together into a set of insights and ecosystem of partnerships to make computing on the whole more secure. Join Julia White and myself for a webinar on June 29 at 10 PST where we will discuss this and more. 
Not a week goes by without news of some terrible cybercrime that has been committed. At the same time mobile devices proliferate, business and personal connections grow, and the convenience and speed of the cloud becomes more of a necessity of day-to-day life. The diversification of the digital landscape is a great advantage, but also opens the door to more cyber risk.  
Microsoft has a unique position in cybersecurity. Because of the massive scale of information that Microsoft processes– billions of device updates and hundreds of billions of emails and authentications for example — we’re able to synthesize threat data far faster than your organization could ever do it alone. 
With Microsoft’s vast intelligence, a security threat that shows up in one company can benefit everyone on the system immediately. Intelligence feeds, and is fed by, all of Microsoft’s products, creating a virtuous cycle. Machine learning is constantly analyzing behavior to detect potential threats, weed out noise and present only what is truly high-risk behavior. 
Learn about how you can benefit from the insight into the threat landscape that Microsoft derives from trillions of signals from billions of sources in our webinar.
Why your IT infrastructure matters
Infrastructure is where valuable data lives. As companies are finding increasing value in building business infrastructure in the cloud, concerns over security of sensitive data like financials and intellectual property are well deserved. 
But the cloud itself has forced new ways to look at security, and hybrid environments benefit greatly from these new approaches. When you no longer have a physical network perimeter, you need to think differently about how to manage security and access to data. Azure Information Protection and Windows enterprise data protection, for example, help secure data when it is being shared across platforms and across the public or private cloud. Access policies can be attached to files, making controls easier to manage, and your employees don’t have to switch environments to get their work done. 
Partnerships play a key role 
No single organization can solve the world’s security challenges alone. Microsoft has worked very hard to form alliances with a variety of organizations, sharing information and partnering on solutions with our peers in the industry, and government and law enforcement agencies, so that all of our customers and partners can benefit. 
For example, the Digital Crimes Unit, an international team of attorneys, investigators, data scientists, engineers, and analysts, works with law enforcement and governments across the globe not only to fight those who would breach systems to disrupt or steal personal information, but also to protect the most vulnerable among us while online. We’ve also partnered with industry players who build solutions on top of our platforms to provide more holistic protection, Unisys has recently done with its cloud-based cybersecurity tools. Agreements like these cross technologies, products, and boundaries to strengthen security regardless of the task at hand or the device you are using.
At Microsoft, our position and scale have helped us form a unique perspective on cybersecurity, one that we can put to work for you. 
Don’t miss out! Register today and join us on June 29, 2016 at 10:00 PST, for Top 5 security threats facing your business – and how to respond.
Ann Johnson
Vice-President, Enterprise Cybersecurity Group
	