
		The standards for security include black suits, dark sunglasses, and walkie-talkie watches. Okay, maybe that’s just in the movies. But, as technology advances rapidly, so does the very real need for strong cyber security. Which is why Microsoft Envision has a big focus on cyber security.
This new conference launches in New Orleans on April 4th and sessions reflect the fact that security is top of mind for every C-level or business leader setting strategy for a company, business unit, or government agency. In a conference that lasts just two and a half days, over a dozen sessions address this vital topic. Here’s a sneak preview at the topics you’ll get to choose from:

Five questions you should ask your security teams— Prepare your security team. A breach is not just about security. It can shake up your customer base, partner relations, executive staff, profits, and revenue.  Speaker: Alym Rayani
Managing security: protect your assets, protect your business— Enjoy the opportunities created by connected technologies and minimize the risk. Benefit from Microsoft’s insight into a threat landscape that includes trillions of signals from billions of devices. Speaker: Alym Rayani
Surveillance debate— Get ahead of the changes. Technology evolves while the legalities of government access to digital information remains unchanged (for now). A panel discusses recent headlines in light of encryption, localization, terrorist threats, and other pressures on policymakers as legal modernization begins. Speakers: Panel discussion
Keeping highly regulated industries safe— Don’t let regulations hold you back. Despite being one of the most regulated industries on the planet, the healthcare industry is driving to the cloud while successfully addressing security, privacy, and compliance. Speakers: Leslie Sistla, Richard Seiersen

Search the session catalog for a current picture of cyber security sessions at Microsoft Envision (sessions are being added daily). Be sure to tell your colleagues, customers, partners, and friends about this great opportunity. As you scroll through the catalog, you will see just how big this conference is and how it can help almost every business.
Microsoft Envision is the newest addition to Microsoft’s big-four conference lineup, joining Microsoft Ignite (for technologists), Microsoft Build (for developers), and the Worldwide Partner Conference. Microsoft Envision focuses on business leaders, specifically decision makers in operations, finance, sales, marketing, and IT who are ready to be leaders not only in their organization, but in their industry.
The list of featured speakers is impressive. You’ll hear from various high-profile executives and analysts who will dive deep into trends and opportunities facing eight key industries:

Manufacturing and resources
Retail and consumer packaged goods (CPG)
Financial Services
Government
Healthcare
Hospitality and travel
Sports and entertainment
Professional Services

This is shaping up to be one of the most informative and influential conferences of the year for business leaders and corporate decision makers. Click here for quick and easy registration. Tweet us your ideas for topics or questions using #Env16. And, feel free to wear that black suit and those dark sunglasses to blend in. See you next month!
	