
		
Cybersecurity is one of the hottest sectors in tech with Gartner forecasting worldwide information spending to exceed $124 billion by the end of 2019.** New startups and security solutions are coming onto the market while attackers continue to find new ways to breach systems. The security solutions market has grown at a rapid pace as a result. Our customers face immense challenges in integrating all these different solutions, tools, and intelligence. Oftentimes, the number of disconnected solutions make it more difficult—rather than easier—to defend and recover from attacks.
We invite you to participate in the Microsoft Graph Security Hackathon for a chance to help solve this pressing challenge and win a piece of the $15,000 cash prize pool.* This online hackathon runs from December 1, 2018 to March 1, 2019 and is open to individuals, teams, and organizations globally.
The Microsoft Graph Security API offers a unified REST endpoint that makes it easy for developers to bring security solutions together to streamline security operations and improve cyber defenses and response. Tap into other Microsoft Graph APIs as well as mash up data and APIs from other sources to extend or enrich your scenarios.
Prizes
In addition to learning more about the Microsoft Graph and the security API, the hackathon offers these awesome prizes for the top projects:

$10,000 cash prize for the first-place solution, plus a speaking opportunity at Build 2019.
$3,000 cash prize for the runner up solution.
$2,000 cash prize for the popular choice solution, chosen via public voting.

In addition, all three winning projects, and the individuals or teams in the categories above, will be widely promoted on Microsoft blog channels—giving you the opportunity for your creative solutions to be known to the masses. The criteria for the judging will consist of the quality of the idea, value to the enterprise, and technical implementation. You can find all the details you need on the Microsoft Graph Security Hackathon website.
Judging panel
Once the hackathon ends on March 1, 2019, judging commences immediately after by our amazing judges. We’ll announce the winners on or before April 1, 2019. The hackathon will be judged by a panel of Microsoft and non-Microsoft experts and influencers in the developer community and in cybersecurity, including:

Ann Johnson, Corporate Vice President for Cybersecurity Solutions Group for Microsoft
Scott Hanselman, Partner Program Manager for Microsoft
Mark Russinovich, CTO Azure for Microsoft
Rick Howard, Chief Security Officer Palo Alto Networks

We will announce more judges in the coming weeks!
Next steps

Start your Microsoft Graph Security hack at the hackathon website and invite your friends to join in the fun!
Get to building integrated security applications.
Learn how the Microsoft Graph Security API helps to streamline security operations and improve cyber defenses.

Let the #graphsecurityhackathon begin…
*No purchase necessary. Open only to new and existing Devpost users who are the age of majority in their country. Game ends March 1, 2019 at 5:00 PM Eastern Time. For details, see the official rules.
**Gartner Press Release, Gartner Forecasts Worldwide Information Security Spending to Exceed $124 Billion in 2019, August 15, 2018, Table 1.
	