
		
At the 2018 RSA Conference, our senior leaders will dissect modern cyber defense strategies, and reveal new products to detect and block cyber attacks when they happen. Our objective is to arm business, government and consumers with deeply integrated intelligence and threat protection capabilities across platforms and products. To this end, we have much to share, joining tech giants and top security leaders and pioneers to expand the frontlines of cyber defense.
The theme of this year’s RSA Conference is “Now Matters,” a nod to the pressure and urgency to protect governments, economies, and nearly half of the world’s population who connects to the Internet. Microsoft President Brad Smith keynotes a valuable session, “The Price of Cyber Warfare,” detailing a new reality that emerged for people and infrastructure from the WannaCry and Not Petya attacks.
In addition to the keynote, several of our senior leaders will host the following industry leading sessions:

Charting a Clear Course: Prioritizing Security Investments and Activities: Bret Arsenault, Corporate VP and CISO, and Lisa Reshaur, senior director, Risk Management, demonstrate Microsoft’s approach to navigating cybersecurity challenges to help inform other large enterprises.
Circle the Wagons! How All of Us Defenders Can Work Together: Rob Lefferts, Director, Enterprise and Security, leads a session on leveraging pooled resources outside your organization to combat the evolving cyberthreat landscape.
Transfer Learning: Repurposing Microsoft’s Algorithmic Arsenal for Cloud Defense: Mark Russinovich, Chief Technology Officer of Microsoft Azure, dives into how built-in tools such as machine learning algorithms can help you strengthen security.
The Rise in Confidential Computing
Office 365 Security: Top Priorities for 30 Days, 90 Days, and Beyond
Data Integrity: The Elephant Threat in the Room
Tech Scams: It’s Time to Release the Hounds
“No, You May Not have a Pony” – The Art of the Possible in Secure IAM Design
The Unexpected Attack Vector: Software Updaters

Within these sessions, we will preview our new products and strategies, dive into IoT, and explore commercial scenarios that touch the gig economy.
Join us at booth 3501 in the North Expo which will be stocked with rich content and product experts to help answer your questions, including anything from our recently released Microsoft Security Intelligence Report. The booth schedule is also loaded with engaging demo stations showcasing identity and access management, information protection, threat protection, security management, GDPR and compliance solutions, and Intelligent Security Graph. We’re also holding a variety of presentations on key topics in our booth, such as:

Windows Defender ATP – Unified platform for endpoint security
Anti-phish Technologies to Protect Your Office 365 Environment
Our Journey to a World without Passwords with Windows Hello
Secure IaaS Deployments Using Microsoft Azure Security Center
Simplify Compliance with Compliance Manager

Stop by our booth 3501 in the North Expo any time to view to these demos and presentations or visit Microsoft.com/rsa to help plan your conference schedule. Be sure to check back on the Microsoft Secure blog to get more information on the Microsoft announcements as they take place and for post RSA content.
	